chapter UNK . UNK . 
call me ishmael . some years ago - never mind how long precisely - having 
little or no money in my purse , and nothing particular to interest me on 
shore , i thought i would sail about a little and see the watery part of 
the world . it is a way i have of driving off the UNK and UNK 
the UNK . whenever i find myself growing grim about the mouth ; 
whenever it is a damp , UNK november in my soul ; whenever i find 
myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses , and bringing up 
the rear of every funeral i meet ; and especially whenever my UNK get 
such an upper hand of me , that it requires a strong moral principle to 
prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street , and methodically 
knocking people ' s hats off - then , i account it high time to get to sea 
as soon as i can . this is my substitute for pistol and ball . with a 
UNK flourish UNK throws himself upon his sword ; i quietly 
take to the ship . there is nothing surprising in this . if they but knew 
it , almost all men in their degree , some time or other , cherish very 
nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me . 
there now is your insular city of the UNK , belted round by 
wharves as indian isles by coral UNK - commerce surrounds it with 
her surf . right and left , the streets take you waterward . its extreme 
UNK is the battery , where that noble mole is washed by waves , and 
UNK by breezes , which a few hours previous were out of sight of land . 
look at the crowds of water - UNK there . 
UNK the city of a dreamy sabbath afternoon . go from UNK 
hook to UNK slip , and from thence , by UNK , northward . what 
do you see ? - posted like silent UNK all around the town , stand 
thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries . some 
leaning against the UNK ; some seated upon the UNK - heads ; some 
looking over the bulwarks of ships from china ; some high aloft in the 
rigging , as if striving to get a still better UNK peep . but these 
are all landsmen ; of week days pent up in UNK and plaster - tied to 
UNK , nailed to UNK , UNK to UNK . how then is this ? are 
the green fields gone ? what do they here ? 
but look ! here come more crowds , pacing straight for the water , and 
seemingly bound for a dive . strange ! nothing will content them but the 
UNK limit of the land ; UNK under the UNK lee of yonder 
warehouses will not UNK . no . they must get just as nigh the water 
as they possibly can without falling in . and there they stand - miles of 
them - leagues . UNK all , they come from UNK and UNK , streets 
and avenues - north , east , south , and west . yet here they all unite . 
tell me , does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all 
those ships UNK them thither ? 
once more . say you are in the country ; in some high land of lakes . take 
almost any path you please , and ten to one it carries you down in a 
UNK , and leaves you there by a UNK in the stream . there is magic 
in it . let the most absent - minded of men be plunged in his deepest 
reveries - stand that man on his legs , set his feet a - going , and he will 
infallibly lead you to water , if water there be in all that region . 
should you ever be athirst in the great american desert , try this 
experiment , if your UNK happen to be supplied with a metaphysical 
professor . yes , as every one knows , meditation and water are wedded for 
ever . 
but here is an artist . he desires to paint you the UNK , UNK , 
UNK , most UNK bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of 
the UNK . what is the chief element he employs ? there stand his trees , 
each with a hollow trunk , as if a hermit and a UNK were within ; and 
here sleeps his meadow , and there sleep his cattle ; and up from yonder 
UNK goes a sleepy smoke . deep into distant UNK winds a 
UNK way , reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains UNK in their 
hill - side blue . but though the picture lies thus UNK , and though 
this pine - tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this shepherd ' s 
head , yet all were vain , unless the shepherd ' s eye were fixed upon the 
magic stream before him . go visit the prairies in june , when for scores 
on scores of miles you wade knee - deep among tiger - UNK - what is the 
one charm wanting ? - water - there is not a drop of water there ! were 
niagara but a cataract of sand , would you travel your thousand miles to 
see it ? why did the poor poet of UNK , upon suddenly receiving two 
handfuls of silver , deliberate whether to buy him a coat , which he sadly 
needed , or invest his money in a UNK trip to UNK beach ? why 
is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him , at 
some time or other crazy to go to sea ? why upon your first voyage as a 
passenger , did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration , when first 
told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land ? why did the 
old UNK hold the sea holy ? why did the UNK give it a separate 
deity , and own brother of jove ? surely all this is not without meaning . 
and still deeper the meaning of that story of UNK , who because 
he could not grasp the UNK , mild image he saw in the fountain , 
plunged into it and was drowned . but that same image , we ourselves see 
in all rivers and oceans . it is the image of the UNK phantom of 
life ; and this is the key to it all . 
now , when i say that i am in the habit of going to sea whenever i begin 
to grow UNK about the eyes , and begin to be over conscious of my lungs , 
i do not mean to have it inferred that i ever go to sea as a passenger . 
for to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse , and a purse is 
but a rag unless you have something in it . besides , passengers get 
sea - sick - grow UNK - don ' t sleep of nights - do not enjoy 
themselves much , as a general thing ; - no , i never go as a passenger ; 
nor , though i am something of a salt , do i ever go to sea as a 
commodore , or a captain , or a cook . i abandon the glory and distinction 
of such UNK to those who like them . for my part , i UNK all 
honourable respectable UNK , UNK , and tribulations of every kind 
whatsoever . it is quite as much as i can do to take care of myself , 
without taking care of ships , UNK , brigs , UNK , and what not . 
and as for going as cook , - though i confess there is considerable glory 
in that , a cook being a sort of officer on ship - board - yet , somehow , 
i never fancied UNK fowls ; - though once broiled , judiciously 
UNK , and UNK salted and UNK , there is no one who 
will speak more respectfully , not to say UNK , of a broiled 
fowl than i will . it is out of the UNK UNK of the old 
egyptians upon broiled UNK and UNK river horse , that you see the 
mummies of those creatures in their huge UNK - houses the pyramids . 
no , when i go to sea , i go as a simple sailor , right before the mast , 
UNK down into the forecastle , aloft there to the royal mast - head . 
true , they rather order me about some , and make me jump from spar to 
spar , like a grasshopper in a may meadow . and at first , this sort 
of thing is UNK enough . it touches one ' s sense of honour , 
particularly if you come of an old UNK family in the land , the 
van UNK , or UNK , or UNK . and more than all , 
if just previous to putting your hand into the tar - pot , you have been 
UNK it as a country schoolmaster , making the UNK boys stand 
in awe of you . the transition is a keen one , i assure you , from a 
schoolmaster to a sailor , and requires a strong UNK of UNK and 
the UNK to enable you to grin and bear it . but even this wears off in 
time . 
what of it , if some old hunks of a sea - captain orders me to get a broom 
and sweep down the decks ? what does that UNK amount to , weighed , 
i mean , in the scales of the new UNK ? do you think the archangel 
gabriel thinks anything the less of me , because i UNK and 
respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance ? who ain ' t 
a slave ? tell me that . well , then , however the old sea - captains may 
order me about - however they may thump and punch me about , i have the 
satisfaction of knowing that it is all right ; that everybody else is 
one way or other served in much the same way - either in a physical 
or metaphysical point of view , that is ; and so the universal thump is 
passed round , and all hands should UNK each other ' s shoulder - blades , and 
be content . 
again , i always go to sea as a sailor , because they make a point of 
paying me for my trouble , whereas they never pay passengers a single 
penny that i ever heard of . on the contrary , passengers themselves must 
pay . and there is all the difference in the world between paying 
and being paid . the act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable 
UNK that the two orchard thieves UNK upon us . but being 
paid , - what will compare with it ? the UNK activity with which a man 
receives money is really marvellous , considering that we so earnestly 
believe money to be the root of all earthly UNK , and that on no account 
can a UNK man enter heaven . ah ! how UNK we UNK ourselves 
to perdition ! 
finally , i always go to sea as a sailor , because of the UNK 
UNK and pure air of the fore - castle deck . for as in this world , 
head winds are far more UNK than winds from astern ( that is , 
if you never UNK the UNK maxim ) , so for the most part the 
commodore on the quarter - deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from 
the sailors on the forecastle . he thinks he breathes it first ; but not 
so . in much the same way do the UNK lead their leaders in many 
other things , at the same time that the leaders little suspect it . 
but wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a 
merchant sailor , i should now take it into my head to go on a whaling 
voyage ; this the invisible UNK officer of the fates , who has the 
constant UNK of me , and UNK dogs me , and influences me 
in some unaccountable way - he can better answer than any one else . and , 
doubtless , my going on this whaling voyage , formed part of the grand 
UNK of providence that was drawn up a long time ago . it came in as 
a sort of brief interlude and UNK between more extensive performances . 
i take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this : 
" grand UNK UNK for the UNK of the united states . 
" whaling voyage by one ishmael . 
" bloody battle in UNK . " 
though i cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage UNK , the 
fates , put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage , when others 
were set down for magnificent parts in high UNK , and short and 
easy parts in UNK UNK , and jolly parts in UNK - though 
i cannot tell why this was exactly ; yet , now that i recall all the 
circumstances , i think i can see a little into the springs and motives 
which being UNK presented to me under various UNK , induced 
me to set about performing the part i did , besides UNK me into the 
delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own UNK UNK 
and UNK judgment . 
chief among these motives was the UNK idea of the great 
whale himself . such a portentous and mysterious monster UNK all my 
curiosity . then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island 
bulk ; the UNK , nameless perils of the whale ; these , with all 
the attending marvels of a thousand patagonian sights and sounds , helped 
to sway me to my wish . with other men , perhaps , such things would not 
have been UNK ; but as for me , i am tormented with an everlasting 
UNK for things remote . i love to sail UNK seas , and land on 
UNK coasts . not UNK what is good , i am quick to perceive a 
horror , and could still be social with it - would they let me - since it 
is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place 
one UNK in . 
by reason of these things , then , the whaling voyage was welcome ; the 
great flood - UNK of the wonder - world swung open , and in the wild 
conceits that swayed me to my purpose , two and two there floated into 
my UNK soul , endless processions of the whale , and , mid most of them 
all , one grand hooded phantom , like a snow hill in the air . 
chapter 2 . the carpet - bag . 
i stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet - bag , tucked it under my arm , 
and started for cape horn and the pacific . quitting the good city of 
old UNK , i duly arrived in new bedford . it was a saturday night in 
december . much was i disappointed upon learning that the little packet 
for nantucket had already sailed , and that no way of reaching that place 
would offer , till the following UNK . 
as most young UNK for the pains and UNK of whaling stop at 
this same new bedford , thence to embark on their voyage , it may as well 
be related that i , for one , had no idea of so doing . for my mind was 
made up to sail in no other than a nantucket craft , because there was a 
fine , boisterous something about everything connected with that famous 
old island , which UNK pleased me . besides though new bedford has 
of late been gradually UNK the business of whaling , and though 
in this matter poor old nantucket is now much behind her , yet nantucket 
was her great original - the UNK of this UNK ; - the place where the 
first dead american whale was stranded . where else but from nantucket 
did those aboriginal whalemen , the red - men , first sally out in canoes to 
give chase to the leviathan ? and where but from nantucket , too , did that 
first adventurous little sloop put forth , partly laden with UNK 
UNK - so goes the story - to throw at the whales , in order to 
discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit ? 
now having a night , a day , and still another night following before me 
in new bedford , ere i could embark for my destined port , it became a 
matter of concernment where i was to eat and sleep meanwhile . it was a 
very dubious - looking , nay , a very dark and dismal night , UNK cold 
and cheerless . i knew no one in the place . with anxious UNK i had 
sounded my pocket , and only brought up a few pieces of silver , - so , 
wherever you go , ishmael , said i to myself , as i stood in the middle of 
a dreary street UNK my bag , and comparing the gloom towards the 
north with the darkness towards the south - wherever in your wisdom you 
may conclude to lodge for the night , my dear ishmael , be sure to inquire 
the UNK , and don ' t be too particular . 
with UNK steps i paced the streets , and passed the sign of " the 
crossed harpoons " - but it looked too UNK and jolly there . further 
on , from the bright red windows of the " sword - fish inn , " there came such 
UNK rays , that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice from 
before the house , for everywhere else the UNK frost lay ten inches 
thick in a hard , UNK UNK , - rather weary for me , when i struck 
my foot against the UNK UNK , because from hard , remorseless 
service the UNK of my boots were in a most miserable plight . too 
UNK and jolly , again thought i , pausing one moment to watch the 
broad glare in the street , and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses 
within . but go on , ishmael , said i at last ; don ' t you hear ? get away 
from before the door ; your patched boots are stopping the way . so on i 
went . i now by instinct followed the streets that took me waterward , for 
there , doubtless , were the UNK , if not the UNK inns . 
such dreary streets ! blocks of blackness , not houses , on either hand , 
and here and there a candle , like a candle moving about in a tomb . at 
this hour of the night , of the last day of the week , that quarter of 
the town proved all but deserted . but presently i came to a smoky light 
proceeding from a low , wide building , the door of which stood UNK 
open . it had a careless look , as if it were meant for the uses of the 
public ; so , entering , the first thing i did was to UNK over an 
ash - box in the porch . ha ! thought i , ha , as the flying UNK almost 
choked me , are these ashes from that destroyed city , gomorrah ? but " the 
crossed harpoons , " and " the sword - fish ? " - this , then must needs be the 
sign of " the trap . " however , i picked myself up and hearing a loud voice 
within , pushed on and opened a second , interior door . 
it seemed the great black UNK sitting in tophet . a hundred black 
faces turned round in their rows to UNK ; and beyond , a black angel 
of doom was beating a book in a pulpit . it was a negro church ; and the 
preacher ' s text was about the blackness of darkness , and the weeping and 
UNK and teeth - UNK there . ha , ishmael , muttered i , backing out , 
wretched UNK at the sign of ' the trap ! ' 
moving on , i at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the docks , 
and heard a forlorn creaking in the air ; and looking up , saw a swinging 
sign over the door with a white painting upon it , faintly representing 
a tall straight jet of misty spray , and these words underneath - " the 
spouter inn : - peter coffin . " 
coffin ? - spouter ? - rather ominous in that particular connexion , thought 
i . but it is a common name in nantucket , they say , and i suppose this 
peter here is an UNK from there . as the light looked so dim , and 
the place , for the time , looked quiet enough , and the UNK little 
wooden house itself looked as if it might have been UNK here from 
the ruins of some burnt district , and as the swinging sign had a 
UNK - stricken sort of UNK to it , i thought that here was the very 
spot for cheap UNK , and the best of pea coffee . 
it was a queer sort of place - a gable - ended old house , one side palsied 
as it were , and leaning over sadly . it stood on a sharp bleak corner , 
where that tempestuous wind euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever 
it did about poor paul ' s tossed craft . euroclydon , nevertheless , is a 
mighty pleasant UNK to any one in - doors , with his feet on the UNK 
quietly UNK for bed . " in judging of that tempestuous wind called 
euroclydon , " says an old writer - of whose works i possess the only copy 
extant - " it UNK a marvellous difference , whether thou lookest out at 
it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outside , or whether 
thou UNK it from that UNK window , where the frost is on both 
sides , and of which the wight death is the only UNK . " true enough , 
thought i , as this passage occurred to my mind - old black - letter , thou 
UNK well . yes , these eyes are windows , and this body of mine is 
the house . what a pity they didn ' t stop up the UNK and the UNK 
though , and thrust in a little UNK here and there . but it ' s too late 
to make any UNK now . the universe is finished ; the copestone 
is on , and the chips were UNK off a UNK years ago . poor lazarus 
there , UNK his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow , and 
shaking off his tatters with his UNK , he might plug up both ears 
with rags , and put a corn - UNK into his mouth , and yet that would not 
keep out the tempestuous euroclydon . euroclydon ! says old dives , in his 
red silken wrapper - ( he had a UNK one afterwards ) pooh , pooh ! what 
a fine frosty night ; how UNK UNK ; what northern lights ! let them 
talk of their oriental summer climes of everlasting UNK ; give 
me the privilege of making my own summer with my own coals . 
but what thinks lazarus ? can he warm his blue hands by holding them up 
to the grand northern lights ? would not lazarus rather be in sumatra 
than here ? would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the 
line of the equator ; yea , ye gods ! go down to the fiery pit itself , in 
order to keep out this frost ? 
now , that lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the 
door of dives , this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be 
moored to one of the UNK . yet dives himself , he too lives like a 
czar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs , and being a UNK of a 
temperance society , he only drinks the tepid UNK of orphans . 
but no more of this UNK now , we are going a - whaling , and there is 
plenty of that yet to come . let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet , 
and see what sort of a place this " spouter " may be . 
chapter 3 . the spouter - inn . 
entering that gable - ended spouter - inn , you found yourself in a wide , 
low , UNK entry with old - fashioned UNK , UNK one of 
the bulwarks of some condemned old craft . on one side hung a very large 
UNK so thoroughly UNK , and every way UNK , that in the 
UNK UNK by which you viewed it , it was only by diligent 
study and a series of systematic visits to it , and careful inquiry of 
the UNK , that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its 
purpose . such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows , that at first 
you almost thought some ambitious young artist , in the time of the new 
england UNK , had endeavored to UNK chaos UNK . but by dint 
of much and earnest contemplation , and oft repeated UNK , and 
especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the 
entry , you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea , however 
wild , might not be altogether unwarranted . 
but what most puzzled and confounded you was a long , limber , portentous , 
black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three 
blue , dim , perpendicular lines floating in a nameless UNK . a UNK , 
UNK , UNK picture truly , enough to drive a nervous man distracted . 
yet was there a sort of indefinite , half - attained , unimaginable 
UNK about it that fairly UNK you to it , till you involuntarily 
took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous painting 
meant . ever and anon a bright , but , alas , UNK idea would dart you 
through . - it ' s the black sea in a midnight gale . - it ' s the unnatural 
combat of the four primal elements . - it ' s a blasted UNK . - it ' s a 
hyperborean winter scene . - it ' s the breaking - up of the UNK stream 
of time . but at last all these fancies UNK to that one portentous 
something in the picture ' s midst . that once found out , and all the rest 
were plain . but stop ; does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic 
fish ? even the great leviathan himself ? 
in fact , the artist ' s design seemed this : a final theory of my own , 
partly based upon the UNK opinions of many aged persons with whom 
i conversed upon the subject . the picture UNK a cape - UNK in a 
great hurricane ; the half - UNK ship weltering there with its three 
dismantled masts alone visible ; and an exasperated whale , UNK to 
spring clean over the craft , is in the enormous act of impaling himself 
upon the three mast - heads . 
the opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish 
array of monstrous UNK and spears . some were thickly set with 
glittering teeth resembling ivory UNK ; others were tufted with knots of 
human hair ; and one was sickle - shaped , with a vast handle sweeping round 
like the UNK made in the new - UNK grass by a long - armed UNK . you 
shuddered as you gazed , and UNK what monstrous cannibal and savage 
could ever have gone a death - UNK with such a UNK , UNK 
implement . mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons 
all broken and deformed . some were storied weapons . with this once long 
lance , now wildly elbowed , fifty years ago did nathan UNK kill fifteen 
whales between a sunrise and a sunset . and that harpoon - so like a 
corkscrew now - was flung in javan seas , and run away with by a whale , 
years afterwards slain off the cape of UNK . the original iron entered 
nigh the tail , and , like a restless needle UNK in the body of a 
man , travelled full forty feet , and at last was found UNK in the 
hump . 
crossing this dusky entry , and on through yon low - arched way - cut 
through what in old times must have been a great central chimney with 
UNK all round - you enter the public room . a still UNK place 
is this , with such low ponderous beams above , and such old wrinkled 
planks beneath , that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft ' s 
UNK , especially of such a howling night , when this corner - anchored 
old ark rocked so furiously . on one side stood a long , low , shelf - like 
table covered with cracked glass cases , filled with dusty UNK 
gathered from this wide world ' s remotest nooks . projecting from the 
further angle of the room stands a dark - looking den - the bar - a rude 
attempt at a right whale ' s head . be that how it may , there stands the 
vast arched bone of the whale ' s jaw , so wide , a coach might almost drive 
beneath it . within are shabby UNK , ranged round with old UNK , 
UNK , UNK ; and in those jaws of swift destruction , like another 
cursed jonah ( by which name indeed they called him ) , UNK a little 
withered old man , who , for their money , dearly UNK the sailors 
UNK and death . 
abominable are the UNK into which he pours his poison . though 
true UNK without - within , the UNK green UNK glasses 
UNK UNK downwards to a cheating bottom . parallel meridians 
rudely UNK into the glass , surround these UNK ' goblets . fill to 
this mark , and your charge is but a penny ; to this a penny more ; and so 
on to the full glass - the cape horn measure , which you may UNK down for 
a UNK . 
upon entering the place i found a number of young seamen gathered about 
a table , UNK by a dim light divers specimens of skrimshander . i 
sought the landlord , and telling him i desired to be UNK with a 
room , received for answer that his house was full - not a bed UNK . 
" but avast , " he added , UNK his forehead , " you UNK no objections 
to sharing a harpooneer ' s blanket , have ye ? i s ' UNK you are goin ' 
a - UNK ' , so you ' d better get used to that sort of thing . " 
i told him that i never liked to sleep two in a bed ; that if i should 
ever do so , it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be , and 
that if he ( the landlord ) really had no other place for me , and the 
harpooneer was not UNK UNK , why rather than UNK 
further about a strange town on so bitter a night , i would put up with 
the half of any decent man ' s blanket . 
" i thought so . all right ; take a seat . supper ? - you want supper ? 
supper ' ll be ready directly . " 
i sat down on an old wooden settle , carved all over like a bench on the 
battery . at one end a UNK tar was still further UNK it with 
his jack - knife , stooping over and diligently working away at the space 
between his legs . he was trying his hand at a ship under full sail , but 
he didn ' t make much headway , i thought . 
at last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an 
adjoining room . it was cold as iceland - no fire at all - the landlord 
said he couldn ' t afford it . nothing but two dismal tallow candles , each 
in a winding sheet . we were fain to button up our monkey jackets , and 
hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers . but 
the fare was of the most substantial kind - not only meat and UNK , 
but dumplings ; good heavens ! dumplings for supper ! one young fellow in 
a green box coat , addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful 
manner . 
" my boy , " said the landlord , " you ' ll have the nightmare to a dead 
UNK . " 
" landlord , " i whispered , " that aint the harpooneer is it ? " 
" oh , no , " said he , looking a sort of UNK funny , " the harpooneer 
is a dark UNK chap . he never eats dumplings , he don ' t - he eats 
nothing but UNK , and he likes ' em rare . " 
" the devil he does , " says i . " where is that harpooneer ? is he here ? " 
" he ' ll be here afore long , " was the answer . 
i could not help it , but i began to feel suspicious of this " dark 
UNK " harpooneer . at any rate , i made up my mind that if it so 
turned out that we should sleep together , he must UNK and get into 
bed before i did . 
supper over , the company went back to the bar - room , when , knowing not 
what else to do with myself , i resolved to spend the rest of the evening 
as a UNK on . 
presently a UNK noise was heard without . starting up , the landlord 
cried , " that ' s the grampus ' s crew . i UNK her reported in the offing 
this morning ; a three years ' voyage , and a full ship . hurrah , boys ; now 
we ' ll have the latest news from the UNK . " 
a UNK of sea boots was heard in the entry ; the door was flung open , 
and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough . enveloped in their shaggy 
watch coats , and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters , all 
UNK and ragged , and their beards stiff with icicles , they seemed an 
UNK of bears from labrador . they had just landed from their boat , 
and this was the first house they entered . no wonder , then , that they 
made a straight wake for the whale ' s mouth - the bar - when the wrinkled 
little old jonah , there UNK , soon poured them out UNK all 
round . one UNK of a bad cold in his head , upon which jonah 
mixed him a pitch - like UNK of gin and molasses , which he swore was a 
sovereign cure for all UNK and UNK whatsoever , never mind of how 
long standing , or whether caught off the coast of labrador , or on the 
weather side of an ice - island . 
the UNK soon mounted into their heads , as it generally does even 
with the UNK UNK newly landed from sea , and they began UNK 
about most UNK . 
i observed , however , that one of them held somewhat UNK , and though 
he seemed UNK not to spoil the UNK of his shipmates by his own 
sober face , yet upon the whole he UNK from making as much noise 
as the rest . this man interested me at once ; and since the sea - gods 
had UNK that he should soon become my shipmate ( though but a 
sleeping - partner one , so far as this narrative is concerned ) , i will 
here venture upon a little description of him . he stood full six feet 
in height , with noble shoulders , and a chest like a UNK - dam . i have 
seldom seen such brawn in a man . his face was deeply brown and burnt , 
making his white teeth UNK by the contrast ; while in the deep 
shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give 
him much joy . his voice at once announced that he was a UNK , 
and from his fine stature , i thought he must be one of those tall 
UNK from the UNK ridge in virginia . when the revelry 
of his companions had mounted to its height , this man slipped away 
unobserved , and i saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the 
sea . in a few minutes , however , he was UNK by his shipmates , and 
being , it seems , for some reason a huge favourite with them , they raised 
a cry of " bulkington ! bulkington ! where ' s bulkington ? " and darted out of 
the house in pursuit of him . 
it was now about nine o ' clock , and the room seeming almost 
UNK quiet after these orgies , i began to UNK myself 
upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance 
of the seamen . 
no man prefers to sleep two in a bed . in fact , you would a good deal 
rather not sleep with your own brother . i don ' t know how it is , but 
people like to be private when they are sleeping . and when it comes to 
sleeping with an unknown stranger , in a strange inn , in a strange 
town , and that stranger a harpooneer , then your objections UNK 
UNK . nor was there any earthly reason why i as a sailor should 
sleep two in a bed , more than anybody else ; for sailors no more sleep 
two in a bed at sea , than bachelor kings do ashore . to be sure they 
all sleep together in one apartment , but you have your own hammock , and 
cover yourself with your own blanket , and sleep in your own skin . 
the more i pondered over this harpooneer , the more i UNK the 
thought of sleeping with him . it was fair to presume that being a 
harpooneer , his linen or woollen , as the case might be , would not be of 
the UNK , certainly none of the finest . i began to twitch all over . 
besides , it was getting late , and my decent harpooneer ought to be 
home and going UNK . suppose now , he should tumble in upon me at 
midnight - how could i tell from what vile hole he had been coming ? 
" landlord ! i ' ve changed my mind about that harpooneer . - i shan ' t sleep 
with him . i ' ll try the bench here . " 
" just as you please ; i ' m sorry i can ' t spare ye a UNK for a 
mattress , and it ' s a plaguy rough board here " - feeling of the knots and 
notches . " but wait a bit , skrimshander ; i ' ve got a carpenter ' s plane 
there in the bar - wait , i say , and i ' ll make ye snug enough . " so saying 
he procured the plane ; and with his old UNK handkerchief first UNK 
the bench , vigorously set to planing away at my bed , the while grinning 
like an ape . the shavings flew right and left ; till at last the 
plane - iron came UNK against an UNK knot . the landlord was 
near UNK his wrist , and i told him for heaven ' s sake to quit - the 
bed was soft enough to suit me , and i did not know how all the planing 
in the world could make UNK down of a pine plank . so gathering up the 
shavings with another grin , and throwing them into the great stove in 
the middle of the room , he went about his business , and left me in a 
brown study . 
i now took the measure of the bench , and found that it was a foot too 
short ; but that could be UNK with a chair . but it was a foot too 
narrow , and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher 
than the planed one - so there was no UNK them . i then placed the 
first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall , 
leaving a little interval between , for my back to settle down in . but i 
soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under 
the UNK of the window , that this plan would never do at all , especially 
as another current from the UNK door met the one from the window , 
and both together formed a series of small UNK in the immediate 
vicinity of the spot where i had thought to spend the night . 
the devil fetch that harpooneer , thought i , but stop , couldn ' t i steal 
a march on him - bolt his door inside , and jump into his bed , not to be 
UNK by the most violent UNK ? it seemed no bad idea ; but upon 
second thoughts i UNK it . for who could tell but what the next 
morning , so soon as i UNK out of the room , the harpooneer might be 
standing in the entry , all ready to UNK me down ! 
still , looking round me again , and seeing no possible chance of spending 
a sufferable night unless in some other person ' s bed , i began to think 
that after all i might be UNK unwarrantable prejudices against 
this unknown harpooneer . thinks i , i ' ll wait awhile ; he must be dropping 
in before long . i ' ll have a good look at him then , and perhaps we may 
become jolly good bedfellows after all - there ' s no telling . 
but though the other boarders kept coming in by ones , twos , and threes , 
and going to bed , yet no sign of my harpooneer . 
" landlord ! " said i , " what sort of a chap is he - does he always keep such 
late hours ? " it was now hard upon twelve o ' clock . 
the landlord UNK again with his lean UNK , and seemed to 
be UNK tickled at something beyond my comprehension . " no , " he 
answered , " generally he ' s an early bird - airley to bed and airley to 
rise - yes , he ' s the bird what UNK the worm . but to - night he went out 
a peddling , you see , and i don ' t see what on airth keeps him so late , 
unless , may be , he can ' t sell his head . " 
" can ' t sell his head ? - what sort of a UNK story is this you 
are telling me ? " getting into a towering rage . " do you pretend to say , 
landlord , that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed saturday 
night , or rather sunday morning , in peddling his head around this town ? " 
" that ' s precisely it , " said the landlord , " and i told him he couldn ' t 
sell it here , the market ' s UNK . " 
" with what ? " shouted i . 
" with heads to be sure ; ain ' t there too many heads in the world ? " 
" i tell you what it is , landlord , " said i quite calmly , " you ' d better 
stop spinning that yarn to me - i ' m not green . " 
" may be not , " taking out a stick and whittling a UNK , " but i 
UNK guess you ' ll be done brown if that ere harpooneer hears you a 
UNK ' his head . " 
" i ' ll break it for him , " said i , now flying into a passion again at this 
unaccountable UNK of the landlord ' s . 
" it ' s broke a ' ready , " said he . 
" broke , " said i - " broke , do you mean ? " 
" UNK , and that ' s the very reason he can ' t sell it , i guess . " 
" landlord , " said i , going up to him as cool as UNK . UNK in a 
snow - storm - " landlord , stop whittling . you and i must understand one 
another , and that too without delay . i come to your house and want a 
bed ; you tell me you can only give me half a one ; that the other half 
belongs to a certain harpooneer . and about this harpooneer , whom i 
have not yet seen , you UNK in telling me the most UNK and 
UNK stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling 
towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow - a sort of connexion , 
landlord , which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest 
degree . i now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this 
harpooneer is , and whether i shall be in all respects safe to spend the 
night with him . and in the first place , you will be so good as to UNK 
that story about selling his head , which if true i take to be good 
UNK that this harpooneer is stark mad , and i ' ve no idea of sleeping 
with a madman ; and you , sir , you i mean , landlord , you , sir , by trying 
to induce me to do so knowingly , would thereby render yourself liable to 
a UNK prosecution . " 
" wall , " said the landlord , fetching a long breath , " that ' s a UNK long 
UNK for a chap that UNK a little now and then . but be easy , be easy , 
this here harpooneer i have been UNK ' you of has just arrived from 
the south seas , where he UNK up a lot of ' UNK new zealand heads 
( great UNK , you know ) , and he ' s sold all on ' em but one , and that one 
he ' s trying to sell to - night , cause to - morrow ' s sunday , and it would not 
do to be UNK ' human heads about the streets when folks is goin ' to 
churches . he wanted to , last sunday , but i stopped him just as he was 
goin ' out of the door with four heads UNK on a string , for all the 
airth like a string of UNK . " 
this account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery , and showed 
that the landlord , after all , had had no idea of UNK me - but at 
the same time what could i think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a 
saturday night clean into the holy sabbath , engaged in such a cannibal 
business as selling the heads of dead UNK ? 
" depend upon it , landlord , that harpooneer is a dangerous man . " 
" he pays UNK ' UNK , " was the rejoinder . " but come , it ' s getting dreadful 
late , you had better be turning flukes - it ' s a nice bed ; sal and me 
slept in that ere bed the night we were UNK . there ' s plenty of room 
for two to kick about in that bed ; it ' s an almighty big bed that . why , 
afore we give it up , sal used to put our sam and little UNK in the 
foot of it . but i got a dreaming and UNK about one night , and 
somehow , sam got pitched on the floor , and came near breaking his arm . 
UNK that , sal said it wouldn ' t do . come along here , i ' ll give ye a 
UNK in a UNK ; " and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards 
me , offering to lead the way . but i stood UNK ; when looking at a 
clock in the corner , he exclaimed " i UNK it ' s sunday - you won ' t see that 
harpooneer to - night ; he ' s come to anchor somewhere - come along then ; do 
come ; won ' t ye come ? " 
i considered the matter a moment , and then up stairs we went , and i was 
UNK into a small room , cold as a clam , and furnished , sure enough , 
with a prodigious bed , almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers 
to sleep abreast . 
" there , " said the landlord , placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest 
that did double duty as a wash - stand and centre table ; " there , make 
yourself comfortable now , and good night to ye . " i turned round from 
eyeing the bed , but he had disappeared . 
folding back the counterpane , i stooped over the bed . though none of the 
most elegant , it yet stood the UNK tolerably well . i then glanced 
round the room ; and besides the UNK and centre table , could see 
no other furniture belonging to the place , but a rude shelf , the four 
walls , and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale . of 
things not properly belonging to the room , there was a hammock lashed 
up , and thrown upon the floor in one corner ; also a large seaman ' s bag , 
containing the harpooneer ' s wardrobe , no doubt in UNK of a land trunk . 
likewise , there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf 
over the fire - place , and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed . 
but what is this on the chest ? i took it up , and held it close to the 
light , and felt it , and smelt it , and tried every way possible to arrive 
at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it . i can compare it to 
nothing but a large door mat , ornamented at the edges with little 
tinkling tags something like the stained UNK quills round an 
indian UNK . there was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat , 
as you see the same in south american UNK . but could it be possible 
that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat , and UNK the 
streets of any christian town in that sort of guise ? i put it on , to try 
it , and it weighed me down like a UNK , being uncommonly shaggy and 
thick , and i thought a little damp , as though this mysterious harpooneer 
had been wearing it of a UNK day . i went up in it to a bit of glass 
stuck against the wall , and i never saw such a sight in my life . i tore 
myself out of it in such a hurry that i gave myself a kink in the neck . 
i sat down on the side of the bed , and commenced thinking about this 
head - peddling harpooneer , and his door mat . after thinking some time on 
the bed - side , i got up and took off my monkey jacket , and then stood in 
the middle of the room thinking . i then took off my coat , and thought 
a little more in my shirt sleeves . but beginning to feel very cold now , 
half undressed as i was , and remembering what the landlord said about 
the harpooneer ' s not coming home at all that night , it being so very 
late , i made no more ado , but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots , and 
then blowing out the light tumbled into bed , and UNK myself to the 
care of heaven . 
whether that mattress was stuffed with corn - UNK or broken UNK , 
there is no telling , but i rolled about a good deal , and could not sleep 
for a long time . at last i slid off into a light doze , and had pretty 
nearly made a good offing towards the land of nod , when i heard a heavy 
UNK in the passage , and saw a UNK of light come into the room 
from under the door . 
lord save me , thinks i , that must be the harpooneer , the infernal 
head - peddler . but i lay perfectly still , and resolved not to say a word 
till spoken to . holding a light in one hand , and that identical new 
zealand head in the other , the stranger entered the room , and without 
looking towards the bed , placed his candle a good way off from me on the 
floor in one corner , and then began working away at the knotted cords 
of the large bag i before spoke of as being in the room . i was all 
eagerness to see his face , but he kept it UNK for some time while 
employed in UNK the bag ' s mouth . this accomplished , however , he 
turned round - when , good heavens ! what a sight ! such a face ! it was of 
a dark , purplish , yellow colour , here and there stuck over with large 
UNK looking squares . yes , it ' s just as i thought , he ' s a terrible 
bedfellow ; he ' s been in a fight , got dreadfully cut , and here he is , 
just from the surgeon . but at that moment he chanced to turn his face 
so towards the light , that i plainly saw they could not be 
sticking - UNK at all , those black squares on his cheeks . they were 
UNK of some sort or other . at first i knew not what to make of this ; 
but soon an UNK of the truth occurred to me . i remembered a story of 
a white man - a whaleman too - who , falling among the cannibals , had been 
tattooed by them . i concluded that this harpooneer , in the course of his 
distant voyages , must have met with a similar adventure . and what is it , 
thought i , after all ! it ' s only his outside ; a man can be honest in any 
sort of skin . but then , what to make of his unearthly complexion , that 
part of it , i mean , lying round about , and completely independent of the 
squares of tattooing . to be sure , it might be nothing but a good coat of 
tropical tanning ; but i never heard of a hot sun ' s tanning a white man 
into a purplish yellow one . however , i had never been in the south seas ; 
and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary UNK upon the 
skin . now , while all these ideas were passing through me like lightning , 
this harpooneer never noticed me at all . but , after some difficulty 
having opened his bag , he commenced fumbling in it , and presently pulled 
out a sort of tomahawk , and a seal - skin UNK with the hair on . placing 
these on the old chest in the middle of the room , he then took the new 
zealand head - a ghastly thing enough - and UNK it down into the bag . 
he now took off his hat - a new beaver hat - when i came nigh singing out 
with fresh surprise . there was no hair on his head - none to speak of at 
least - nothing but a small UNK - knot twisted up on his forehead . his 
UNK purplish head now looked for all the world like a UNK skull . 
had not the stranger stood between me and the door , i would have bolted 
out of it UNK than ever i bolted a dinner . 
even as it was , i thought something of slipping out of the window , but 
it was the second floor back . i am no coward , but what to make of 
this head - peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension . 
ignorance is the UNK of fear , and being completely UNK and 
confounded about the stranger , i confess i was now as much afraid of him 
as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at 
the dead of night . in fact , i was so afraid of him that i was not 
game enough just then to address him , and demand a satisfactory answer 
concerning what seemed inexplicable in him . 
meanwhile , he continued the business of UNK , and at last showed 
his chest and arms . as i live , these covered parts of him were UNK 
with the same squares as his face ; his back , too , was all over the same 
dark squares ; he seemed to have been in a thirty years ' war , and just 
escaped from it with a sticking - plaster shirt . still more , his very 
legs were marked , as if a parcel of dark green UNK were running up 
the trunks of young palms . it was now quite plain that he must be some 
abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the south 
seas , and so landed in this christian country . i UNK to think of it . 
a peddler of heads too - perhaps the heads of his own UNK . he might 
take a fancy to mine - heavens ! look at that tomahawk ! 
but there was no time for shuddering , for now the savage went about 
something that completely UNK my attention , and convinced me that 
he must indeed be a heathen . going to his heavy grego , or UNK , or 
UNK , which he had previously hung on a chair , he UNK in the 
pockets , and produced at length a curious little deformed image with 
a hunch on its back , and exactly the colour of a three days ' old UNK 
baby . remembering the embalmed head , at first i almost thought that 
this black UNK was a real baby preserved in some similar manner . but 
seeing that it was not at all limber , and that it glistened a good deal 
like polished ebony , i concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden 
idol , which indeed it proved to be . for now the savage goes up to the 
empty fire - place , and removing the papered fire - board , sets up this 
little hunch - backed image , like a UNK , between the UNK . the 
chimney UNK and all the UNK inside were very sooty , so that i 
thought this fire - place made a very UNK little UNK or chapel 
for his UNK idol . 
i now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image , feeling but 
ill at ease meantime - to see what was next to follow . first he takes 
about a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket , and places 
them carefully before the idol ; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on 
top and UNK the flame from the lamp , he kindled the shavings into 
a sacrificial blaze . presently , after many hasty snatches into the fire , 
and still UNK UNK of his fingers ( whereby he seemed to be 
scorching them badly ) , he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit ; 
then blowing off the heat and ashes a little , he made a polite offer of 
it to the little negro . but the little devil did not seem to fancy such 
dry sort of fare at all ; he never moved his lips . all these strange 
UNK were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from the 
UNK , who seemed to be praying in a sing - song or else singing some 
pagan psalmody or other , during which his face twitched about in the 
most unnatural manner . at last UNK the fire , he took the idol 
up very UNK , and UNK it again in his grego pocket as 
carelessly as if he were a UNK UNK a dead UNK . 
all these queer proceedings increased my UNK , and 
seeing him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business 
operations , and jumping into bed with me , i thought it was high time , 
now or never , before the light was put out , to break the spell in which 
i had so long been bound . 
but the interval i spent in UNK what to say , was a fatal one . 
taking up his tomahawk from the table , he UNK the head of it for an 
instant , and then holding it to the light , with his mouth at the handle , 
he UNK out great clouds of tobacco smoke . the next moment the light 
was UNK , and this wild cannibal , tomahawk between his teeth , 
sprang into bed with me . i UNK out , i could not help it now ; and giving 
a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me . 
UNK out something , i knew not what , i rolled away from him 
against the wall , and then UNK him , whoever or whatever he might 
be , to keep quiet , and let me get up and light the lamp again . but his 
guttural UNK satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my 
meaning . 
" who - e UNK you ? " - he at last said - " you no speak - e , dam - me , i kill - e . " 
and so saying the lighted tomahawk began UNK about me in the 
dark . 
" landlord , for god ' s sake , peter coffin ! " shouted i . " landlord ! watch ! 
coffin ! angels ! save me ! " 
" speak - e ! tell - ee me who - ee be , or dam - me , i kill - e ! " again UNK the 
cannibal , while his horrid UNK of the tomahawk scattered the 
hot tobacco ashes about me till i thought my linen would get on fire . 
but thank heaven , at that moment the landlord came into the room light 
in hand , and leaping from the bed i ran up to him . 
" don ' t be afraid now , " said he , grinning again , " queequeg here wouldn ' t 
harm a hair of your head . " 
" stop your grinning , " shouted i , " and why didn ' t you tell me that that 
infernal harpooneer was a cannibal ? " 
" i thought ye know ' d it ; - didn ' t i tell ye , he was a UNK ' heads 
around town ? - but turn flukes again and go to sleep . queequeg , look 
here - you sabbee me , i sabbee - you this man UNK you - you sabbee ? " 
" me sabbee plenty " - UNK queequeg , puffing away at his pipe and 
sitting up in bed . 
" you UNK in , " he added , UNK to me with his tomahawk , and 
throwing the clothes to one side . he really did this in not only a UNK 
but a really kind and charitable way . i stood looking at him a moment . 
for all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean , UNK looking 
cannibal . what ' s all this fuss i have been making about , thought i to 
myself - the man ' s a human being just as i am : he has just as much reason 
to fear me , as i have to be afraid of him . better sleep with a sober 
cannibal than a drunken christian . 
" landlord , " said i , " tell him to UNK his tomahawk there , or pipe , or 
whatever you call it ; tell him to stop smoking , in short , and i will 
turn in with him . but i don ' t fancy having a man smoking in bed with me . 
it ' s dangerous . besides , i ain ' t UNK . " 
this being told to queequeg , he at once complied , and again politely 
UNK me to get into bed - rolling over to one side as much as to 
say - " i won ' t touch a leg of ye . " 
" good night , landlord , " said i , " you may go . " 
i turned in , and never slept better in my life . 
chapter 4 . the counterpane . 
upon waking next morning about daylight , i found queequeg ' s arm thrown 
over me in the most loving and affectionate manner . you had almost 
thought i had been his wife . the counterpane was of patchwork , full of 
odd little UNK - coloured squares and UNK ; and this arm of his 
tattooed all over with an UNK cretan labyrinth of a figure , 
no two parts of which were of one precise shade - owing i suppose to 
his keeping his arm at sea UNK in sun and shade , his shirt 
sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times - this same arm of his , i 
say , looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork UNK . 
indeed , partly lying on it as the arm did when i first awoke , i could 
hardly tell it from the UNK , they so blended their hues together ; and 
it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that i could tell that 
queequeg was UNK me . 
my UNK were strange . let me try to explain them . when i was a 
child , i well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me ; 
whether it was a reality or a dream , i never could entirely settle . 
the circumstance was this . i had been cutting up some UNK or other - i 
think it was trying to crawl up the chimney , as i had seen a little 
sweep do a few days previous ; and my stepmother who , somehow or other , 
was all the time UNK me , or sending me to bed UNK , - my 
mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to 
bed , though it was only two o ' clock in the afternoon of the UNK june , 
the UNK day in the year in our UNK . i felt dreadfully . but 
there was no help for it , so up stairs i went to my little room in the 
third floor , undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time , 
and with a bitter UNK got between the sheets . 
i lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must UNK 
before i could hope for a resurrection . sixteen hours in bed ! the 
small of my back UNK to think of it . and it was so light too ; the 
sun shining in at the window , and a great rattling of UNK in the 
streets , and the sound of gay voices all over the house . i felt worse 
and worse - at last i got up , dressed , and softly going down in my 
UNK feet , sought out my stepmother , and suddenly threw myself 
at her feet , UNK her as a particular favour to give me a good 
UNK for my UNK ; anything indeed but UNK me to lie 
UNK such an UNK length of time . but she was the best and most 
conscientious of UNK , and back i had to go to my room . for 
several hours i lay there broad awake , feeling a great deal worse than i 
have ever done since , even from the greatest subsequent UNK . at 
last i must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze ; and slowly 
waking from it - half UNK in dreams - i opened my eyes , and the before 
sun - lit room was now wrapped in outer darkness . instantly i felt a shock 
running through all my frame ; nothing was to be seen , and nothing was 
to be heard ; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine . my arm hung 
over the counterpane , and the nameless , unimaginable , silent form 
or phantom , to which the hand belonged , seemed closely seated by my 
bed - side . for what seemed ages piled on ages , i lay there , frozen with 
the most awful fears , not daring to drag away my hand ; yet ever thinking 
that if i could but stir it one single inch , the horrid spell would be 
broken . i knew not how this consciousness at last glided away from me ; 
but waking in the morning , i UNK remembered it all , and for 
days and weeks and months afterwards i lost myself in UNK 
attempts to explain the mystery . nay , to this very hour , i often puzzle 
myself with it . 
now , take away the awful fear , and my UNK at feeling the 
supernatural hand in mine were very similar , in their strangeness , to 
those which i experienced on waking up and seeing queequeg ' s pagan 
arm thrown round me . but at length all the past night ' s events UNK 
UNK , one by one , in fixed reality , and then i lay only alive to 
the comical UNK . for though i tried to move his arm - UNK his 
UNK UNK - yet , sleeping as he was , he still UNK me tightly , 
as though naught but death should part us twain . i now UNK to UNK 
him - " queequeg ! " - but his only answer was a UNK . i then rolled over , 
my neck feeling as if it were in a horse - collar ; and suddenly felt a 
slight UNK . throwing aside the counterpane , there lay the tomahawk 
sleeping by the savage ' s side , as if it were a hatchet - faced baby . a 
pretty pickle , truly , thought i ; UNK here in a strange house in the 
broad day , with a cannibal and a tomahawk ! " queequeg ! - in the name of 
goodness , queequeg , wake ! " at length , by dint of much wriggling , and 
loud and incessant UNK upon the UNK of his 
UNK a fellow male in that UNK sort of style , i succeeded in 
UNK a grunt ; and presently , he drew back his arm , shook himself 
all over like a newfoundland dog just from the water , and sat up in bed , 
stiff as a pike - staff , looking at me , and rubbing his eyes as if he 
did not altogether remember how i came to be there , though a dim 
consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly UNK over 
him . meanwhile , i lay quietly eyeing him , having no serious misgivings 
now , and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature . when , at 
last , his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow , 
and he became , as it were , reconciled to the fact ; he jumped out upon 
the floor , and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that , 
if it pleased me , he would dress first and then leave me to dress 
afterwards , leaving the whole apartment to myself . thinks i , queequeg , 
under the circumstances , this is a very civilized UNK ; but , the 
truth is , these savages have an UNK sense of delicacy , say what 
you will ; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are . i pay this 
particular UNK to queequeg , because he treated me with so much 
UNK and consideration , while i was guilty of great UNK ; 
staring at him from the bed , and watching all his UNK motions ; for 
the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding . nevertheless , 
a man like queequeg you don ' t see every day , he and his ways were well 
worth unusual regarding . 
he commenced UNK at top by UNK his beaver hat , a very tall one , 
by the by , and then - still UNK his trowsers - he hunted up his boots . 
what under the heavens he did it for , i cannot tell , but his next 
movement was to crush himself - boots in hand , and hat on - under the bed ; 
when , from sundry violent UNK and UNK , i inferred he was 
hard at work UNK himself ; though by no law of propriety that i ever 
heard of , is any man required to be private when putting on his 
boots . but queequeg , do you see , was a creature in the transition 
stage - neither UNK nor UNK . he was just enough civilized 
to show off his UNK in the strangest possible UNK . his 
UNK was not yet completed . he was an UNK . if he had not 
been a small degree civilized , he very probably would not have troubled 
himself with boots at all ; but then , if he had not been still a savage , 
he never would have UNK of getting under the bed to put them on . at 
last , he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his 
eyes , and began creaking and limping about the room , as if , not 
being much accustomed to boots , his pair of damp , wrinkled UNK 
ones - probably not made to order either - rather UNK and tormented 
him at the first go off of a bitter cold morning . 
seeing , now , that there were no UNK to the window , and that the 
street being very narrow , the house opposite commanded a plain view 
into the room , and observing more and more the UNK figure that 
queequeg made , UNK about with little else but his hat and boots on ; 
i begged him as well as i could , to accelerate his toilet somewhat , 
and particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible . he 
complied , and then proceeded to wash himself . at that time in the 
morning any christian would have washed his face ; but queequeg , to 
my amazement , UNK himself with UNK his UNK to his 
chest , arms , and hands . he then UNK his waistcoat , and taking up a 
piece of hard UNK on the wash - stand centre table , dipped it into water 
and commenced UNK his face . i was watching to see where he kept 
his razor , when lo and behold , he takes the harpoon from the bed corner , 
slips out the long wooden stock , UNK the head , UNK it a little 
on his boot , and striding up to the bit of mirror against the wall , 
begins a vigorous scraping , or rather harpooning of his cheeks . thinks 
i , queequeg , this is using UNK ' s best UNK with a vengeance . 
afterwards i UNK the less at this operation when i came to know of 
what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made , and how exceedingly sharp 
the long straight edges are always kept . 
the rest of his toilet was soon achieved , and he proudly marched out of 
the room , wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket , and UNK his 
harpoon like a marshal ' s UNK . 
chapter 5 . breakfast . 
i quickly followed suit , and descending into the bar - room accosted the 
grinning landlord very UNK . i cherished no malice towards him , 
though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my 
bedfellow . 
however , a good laugh is a mighty good thing , and rather too scarce a 
good thing ; the more ' s the pity . so , if any one man , in his own 
proper person , afford stuff for a good joke to anybody , let him not be 
backward , but let him UNK allow himself to spend and be spent in 
that way . and the man that has anything UNK UNK about him , 
be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for . 
the bar - room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the 
night previous , and whom i had not as yet had a good look at . they were 
nearly all whalemen ; chief mates , and second mates , and third mates , and 
sea carpenters , and sea coopers , and sea blacksmiths , and harpooneers , 
and ship keepers ; a brown and brawny company , with UNK beards ; an 
UNK , shaggy set , all wearing monkey jackets for morning UNK . 
you could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore . this 
young fellow ' s healthy cheek is like a sun - UNK pear in hue , and 
would seem to smell almost as musky ; he cannot have been three days 
landed from his indian voyage . that man next him looks a few shades 
lighter ; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him . in the 
complexion of a third still UNK a tropic UNK , but slightly bleached 
withal ; he doubtless has UNK whole weeks ashore . but who could show 
a cheek like queequeg ? which , UNK with various tints , seemed like the 
andes ' western UNK , to show forth in one array , contrasting climates , 
zone by zone . 
" UNK , ho ! " now cried the landlord , flinging open a door , and in we went 
to breakfast . 
they say that men who have seen the world , thereby become quite at ease 
in manner , quite self - possessed in company . not always , though : ledyard , 
the great new england traveller , and mungo UNK , the scotch one ; of all 
men , they possessed the least UNK in the parlor . but perhaps the 
mere crossing of siberia in a UNK drawn by dogs as ledyard did , or 
the taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach , in the negro heart 
of africa , which was the sum of poor mungo ' s performances - this kind of 
travel , i say , may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social 
UNK . still , for the most part , that sort of thing is to be had 
anywhere . 
these reflections just here are UNK by the circumstance that 
after we were all seated at the table , and i was preparing to hear some 
good stories about whaling ; to my no small surprise , nearly every 
man maintained a profound silence . and not only that , but they looked 
UNK . yes , here were a set of sea - dogs , many of whom without the 
slightest UNK had boarded great whales on the high seas - entire 
strangers to them - and UNK them dead without UNK ; and yet , here 
they sat at a social breakfast table - all of the same calling , all of 
kindred UNK - looking round as UNK at each other as though they 
had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the green mountains . 
a curious sight ; these UNK bears , these timid warrior whalemen ! 
but as for queequeg - why , queequeg sat there among them - at the head of 
the table , too , it so chanced ; as cool as an UNK . to be sure i cannot 
say much for his breeding . his greatest UNK could not have UNK 
UNK his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him , and using it 
there without ceremony ; reaching over the table with it , to the imminent 
jeopardy of many heads , and UNK the beefsteaks towards him . but 
that was certainly very coolly done by him , and every one knows that in 
most people ' s estimation , to do anything coolly is to do it UNK . 
we will not speak of all queequeg ' s peculiarities here ; how he UNK 
coffee and hot rolls , and applied his UNK attention to beefsteaks , 
done rare . enough , that when breakfast was over he withdrew like the 
rest into the public room , lighted his tomahawk - pipe , and was sitting 
there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on , when i 
sallied out for a stroll . 
chapter UNK . the street . 
if i had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish 
an individual as queequeg UNK among the polite society of a 
civilized town , that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first 
daylight stroll through the streets of new bedford . 
in thoroughfares nigh the docks , any considerable seaport will 
frequently offer to view the queerest looking UNK from foreign 
parts . even in broadway and UNK streets , mediterranean mariners 
will sometimes UNK the affrighted ladies . UNK street is not 
unknown to UNK and malays ; and at UNK , in the UNK green , live 
yankees have often scared the natives . but new bedford UNK all water 
street and wapping . in these last - mentioned UNK you see only sailors ; 
but in new bedford , actual cannibals stand chatting at street corners ; 
savages UNK ; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy flesh . it 
makes a stranger stare . 
but , besides the UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK , 
and UNK , and , besides the wild specimens of the whaling - craft 
which unheeded UNK about the streets , you will see other sights still 
more curious , certainly more comical . there UNK arrive in this town 
scores of green UNK and new hampshire men , all athirst for gain 
and glory in the fishery . they are mostly young , of UNK UNK ; 
fellows who have UNK forests , and now seek to drop the axe and snatch 
the whale - lance . many are as green as the green mountains whence they 
came . in some things you would think them but a few hours old . look 
there ! that chap UNK round the corner . he wears a beaver hat and 
swallow - tailed coat , girdled with a sailor - belt and sheath - knife . here 
comes another with a sou ' - UNK and a UNK UNK . 
no town - bred dandy will compare with a country - bred one - i mean a 
downright bumpkin dandy - a fellow that , in the dog - days , will UNK his 
two acres in buckskin UNK for fear of tanning his hands . now when a 
country dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished 
reputation , and UNK the great whale - fishery , you should see the 
comical things he does upon reaching the seaport . in UNK his 
sea - UNK , he orders bell - buttons to his UNK ; straps to his 
canvas trowsers . ah , poor hay - UNK ! how bitterly will burst those straps 
in the first howling gale , when thou art driven , straps , buttons , and 
all , down the throat of the tempest . 
but think not that this famous town has only harpooneers , cannibals , and 
bumpkins to show her visitors . not at all . still new bedford is a queer 
place . had it not been for us whalemen , that UNK of land would this 
day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast of labrador . 
as it is , parts of her back country are enough to frighten one , they 
look so bony . the town itself is perhaps the UNK place to live 
in , in all new england . it is a land of oil , true enough : but not like 
UNK ; a land , also , of corn and wine . the streets do not run with 
milk ; nor in the spring - time do they UNK them with fresh UNK . yet , in 
spite of this , nowhere in all america will you find more UNK - like 
houses ; UNK and gardens more opulent , than in new bedford . whence came 
they ? how planted upon this once UNK UNK of a country ? 
go and gaze upon the iron UNK harpoons round yonder lofty 
mansion , and your question will be answered . yes ; all these brave houses 
and flowery gardens came from the atlantic , pacific , and indian oceans . 
one and all , they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the bottom 
of the sea . can UNK alexander perform a feat like that ? 
in new bedford , fathers , they say , give whales for UNK to their 
daughters , and portion off their UNK with a few porpoises a - piece . 
you must go to new bedford to see a UNK wedding ; for , they say , 
they have UNK of oil in every house , and every night recklessly 
burn their lengths in spermaceti candles . 
in summer time , the town is sweet to see ; full of fine UNK - long 
avenues of green and gold . and in august , high in air , the beautiful and 
UNK horse - UNK , UNK - wise , UNK the UNK - by their 
tapering upright UNK of UNK UNK . so omnipotent is art ; 
which in many a district of new bedford has UNK bright terraces 
of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at creation ' s final 
day . 
and the women of new bedford , they bloom like their own red roses . but 
roses only bloom in summer ; whereas the fine UNK of their cheeks 
is UNK as sunlight in the seventh heavens . elsewhere match that 
bloom of theirs , ye cannot , save in UNK , where they tell me the young 
girls breathe such musk , their sailor UNK smell them miles off 
shore , as though they were drawing nigh the odorous UNK instead of 
the UNK sands . 
chapter UNK . the chapel . 
in this same new bedford there stands a whaleman ' s chapel , and few are 
the moody fishermen , shortly bound for the indian ocean or pacific , who 
fail to make a sunday visit to the spot . i am sure that i did not . 
returning from my first morning stroll , i again sallied out upon this 
special errand . the sky had changed from clear , sunny cold , to driving 
sleet and mist . UNK myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called 
bearskin , i fought my way against the stubborn storm . entering , i 
found a small scattered congregation of sailors , and sailors ' wives and 
widows . a muffled silence reigned , only broken at times by the shrieks 
of the storm . each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from 
the other , as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable . the 
chaplain had not yet arrived ; and there these silent islands of men and 
women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets , with black borders , 
masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit . three of them ran 
something like the following , but i do not pretend to UNK : - 
sacred to the memory of john UNK , who , at the age of eighteen , was 
lost overboard , near the isle of desolation , off UNK , november 
1st , 1836 . this tablet is erected to his memory by his sister . 
sacred to the memory of UNK long , UNK UNK , nathan coleman , 
UNK UNK , UNK macy , and samuel UNK , forming one of the boats ' 
crews of the ship UNK who were towed out of sight by a whale , on the 
off - shore ground in the pacific , december UNK , 1839 . this marble is 
here placed by their surviving shipmates . 
sacred to the memory of the late captain ezekiel hardy , who in the bows 
of his boat was killed by a sperm whale on the coast of japan , august 
3d , UNK . this tablet is erected to his memory by his widow . 
shaking off the sleet from my ice - UNK hat and jacket , i seated myself 
near the door , and turning sideways was surprised to see queequeg near 
me . affected by the solemnity of the scene , there was a wondering gaze 
of incredulous curiosity in his countenance . this savage was the only 
person present who seemed to notice my entrance ; because he was the only 
one who could not read , and , therefore , was not reading those frigid 
inscriptions on the wall . whether any of the UNK of the seamen 
whose names appeared there were now among the congregation , i knew not ; 
but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery , and so plainly 
did several women present wear the countenance if not the trappings 
of some unceasing grief , that i feel sure that here before me were 
assembled those , in whose UNK hearts the sight of those bleak 
tablets UNK caused the old UNK to UNK afresh . 
oh ! ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass ; who standing among 
flowers can say - here , here lies my beloved ; ye know not the desolation 
that UNK in UNK like these . what bitter UNK in those 
black - UNK marbles which cover no ashes ! what despair in those 
immovable inscriptions ! what deadly voids and UNK UNK in 
the lines that seem to UNK upon all faith , and refuse UNK to 
the beings who have UNK perished without a grave . as well might 
those tablets stand in the cave of UNK as here . 
in what census of living creatures , the dead of mankind are included ; 
why it is that a universal proverb says of them , that they tell no 
tales , though containing more secrets than the UNK sands ; how it is 
that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world , we UNK 
so significant and infidel a word , and yet do not thus UNK him , if 
he but UNK for the remotest UNK of this living earth ; why the 
life insurance companies pay death - UNK upon UNK ; in what 
eternal , UNK UNK , and deadly , hopeless trance , yet lies 
antique adam who died sixty round centuries ago ; how it is that we 
still refuse to be UNK for those who we nevertheless maintain are 
UNK in unspeakable bliss ; why all the living so UNK to hush all 
the dead ; wherefore but the UNK of a knocking in a tomb will UNK a 
whole city . all these things are not without their meanings . 
but faith , like a UNK , feeds among the UNK , and even from these 
dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope . 
it needs scarcely to be told , with what feelings , on the eve of a 
nantucket voyage , i regarded those marble tablets , and by the UNK 
light of that darkened , UNK day read the fate of the whalemen 
who had gone before me . yes , ishmael , the same fate may be thine . but 
somehow i grew merry again . delightful UNK to embark , fine 
chance for promotion , it seems - aye , a stove boat will make me an 
immortal by UNK . yes , there is death in this business of whaling - a 
UNK quick UNK UNK of a man into eternity . but what 
then ? methinks we have UNK mistaken this matter of life and death . 
methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true 
substance . methinks that in looking at things spiritual , we are too 
much like UNK observing the sun through the water , and thinking that 
thick water the UNK of air . methinks my body is but the lees of my 
better being . in fact take my body who will , take it i say , it is not 
me . and therefore three cheers for nantucket ; and come a stove boat and 
stove body when they will , for stave my soul , jove himself cannot . 
chapter UNK . the pulpit . 
i had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerable 
robustness entered ; immediately as the storm - UNK door flew back upon 
admitting him , a quick UNK eyeing of him by all the congregation , 
sufficiently UNK that this fine old man was the chaplain . yes , it 
was the famous father mapple , so called by the whalemen , among whom he 
was a very great favourite . he had been a sailor and a harpooneer in his 
youth , but for many years past had UNK his life to the UNK . 
at the time i now write of , father mapple was in the hardy winter of a 
healthy old age ; that sort of old age which seems UNK into a second 
UNK youth , for among all the UNK of his wrinkles , there shone 
certain mild gleams of a newly UNK bloom - the spring verdure 
UNK forth even beneath UNK ' s snow . no one having previously 
heard his history , could for the first time behold father mapple without 
the utmost interest , because there were certain UNK UNK 
peculiarities about him , UNK to that adventurous maritime life 
he had led . when he entered i observed that he carried no umbrella , and 
certainly had not come in his carriage , for his tarpaulin hat ran down 
with melting sleet , and his great pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to 
drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorbed . 
however , hat and coat and UNK were one by one removed , and hung up 
in a little space in an adjacent corner ; when , arrayed in a decent suit , 
he quietly approached the pulpit . 
like most old fashioned pulpits , it was a very lofty one , and since a 
regular stairs to such a height would , by its long angle with the floor , 
seriously UNK the already small area of the chapel , the architect , 
it seemed , had acted upon the hint of father mapple , and finished the 
pulpit without a stairs , substituting a perpendicular side ladder , like 
those used in UNK a ship from a boat at sea . the wife of a whaling 
captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted 
man - ropes for this ladder , which , being itself nicely headed , and 
stained with a mahogany colour , the whole contrivance , considering what 
manner of chapel it was , seemed by no means in bad taste . UNK for 
an instant at the foot of the ladder , and with both hands grasping the 
UNK UNK of the man - ropes , father mapple cast a look upwards , 
and then with a truly sailor - like but still UNK dexterity , hand 
over hand , mounted the steps as if ascending the main - top of his vessel . 
the perpendicular parts of this side ladder , as is usually the case with 
swinging ones , were of cloth - covered rope , only the rounds were of wood , 
so that at every step there was a joint . at my first glimpse of the 
pulpit , it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship , 
these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary . for i was not 
prepared to see father mapple after gaining the height , slowly turn 
round , and stooping over the pulpit , deliberately drag up the ladder 
step by step , till the whole was UNK within , leaving him 
impregnable in his little quebec . 
i pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this . 
father mapple UNK such a wide reputation for sincerity and UNK , 
that i could not suspect him of UNK UNK by any mere UNK 
of the stage . no , thought i , there must be some sober reason for this 
thing ; furthermore , it must UNK something unseen . can it be , 
then , that by that act of physical isolation , he signifies his spiritual 
UNK for the time , from all outward UNK UNK and UNK ? 
yes , for replenished with the meat and wine of the word , to the faithful 
man of god , this pulpit , i see , is a self - containing UNK - a lofty 
UNK , with a UNK well of water within the walls . 
but the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place , 
borrowed from the chaplain ' s former sea - UNK . between the marble 
UNK on either hand of the pulpit , the wall which formed its back 
was UNK with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating 
against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy 
breakers . but high above the flying scud and dark - rolling clouds , there 
floated a little isle of sunlight , from which UNK forth an angel ' s 
face ; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the 
ship ' s tossed deck , something like that silver plate now inserted into 
the victory ' s plank where nelson fell . " ah , noble ship , " the angel 
seemed to say , " beat on , beat on , thou noble ship , and bear a hardy 
helm ; for lo ! the sun is breaking through ; the clouds are rolling 
off - UNK azure is at hand . " 
nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea - taste that 
had achieved the ladder and the picture . its panelled front was in 
the likeness of a ship ' s bluff bows , and the holy bible rested on a 
projecting piece of scroll work , fashioned after a ship ' s fiddle - headed 
UNK . 
what could be more full of meaning ? - for the pulpit is ever this earth ' s 
foremost part ; all the rest comes in its rear ; the pulpit leads the 
world . from thence it is the storm of god ' s quick wrath is first 
descried , and the bow must bear the UNK UNK . from thence it is 
the god of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for UNK winds . 
yes , the world ' s a ship on its passage out , and not a voyage complete ; 
and the pulpit is its prow . 
chapter UNK . the sermon . 
father mapple rose , and in a mild voice of UNK authority ordered 
the scattered people to UNK . " starboard gangway , there ! side away 
to larboard - larboard gangway to starboard ! midships ! midships ! " 
there was a low UNK of heavy sea - boots among the UNK , and a 
still slighter shuffling of women ' s shoes , and all was quiet again , and 
every eye on the preacher . 
he paused a little ; then kneeling in the pulpit ' s bows , folded his large 
brown hands across his chest , uplifted his closed eyes , and offered 
a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at the 
bottom of the sea . 
this ended , in prolonged solemn tones , like the continual UNK of 
a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog - in such tones he 
commenced reading the following hymn ; but changing his manner towards 
the concluding UNK , burst forth with a UNK UNK and joy - 
" the ribs and terrors in the whale , 
arched over me a dismal gloom , 
while all god ' s sun - lit waves rolled by , 
and lift me UNK down to doom . 
" i saw the opening maw of hell , 
with endless pains and sorrows there ; 
which none but they that feel can tell - 
oh , i was plunging to despair . 
" in black distress , i called my god , 
when i could scarce believe him mine , 
he bowed his ear to my UNK - 
no more the whale did me UNK . 
" with speed he flew to my relief , 
as on a UNK dolphin borne ; 
awful , yet bright , as lightning shone 
the face of my UNK god . 
" my song for ever shall record 
that terrible , that joyful hour ; 
i give the glory to my god , 
his all the mercy and the power . " 
nearly all joined in singing this hymn , which swelled high above the 
howling of the storm . a brief pause ensued ; the preacher slowly turned 
over the leaves of the bible , and at last , folding his hand down upon 
the proper page , said : " beloved shipmates , clinch the last UNK of the 
first chapter of jonah - ' and god had prepared a great fish to swallow up 
jonah . ' " 
" shipmates , this book , containing only four chapters - four yarns - is one 
of the smallest UNK in the mighty cable of the scriptures . yet what 
depths of the soul does jonah ' s deep UNK sound ! what a pregnant 
lesson to us is this prophet ! what a noble thing is that UNK in the 
fish ' s belly ! how billow - like and UNK grand ! we feel the UNK 
surging over us ; we sound with him to the UNK bottom of the waters ; 
sea - UNK and all the slime of the sea is about us ! but what is this 
lesson that the book of jonah teaches ? shipmates , it is a two - stranded 
lesson ; a lesson to us all as sinful men , and a lesson to me as a pilot 
of the living god . as sinful men , it is a lesson to us all , because it 
is a story of the sin , hard - UNK , suddenly awakened fears , the 
swift punishment , repentance , prayers , and finally the deliverance and 
joy of jonah . as with all sinners among men , the sin of this son of 
UNK was in his wilful disobedience of the command of god - never 
mind now what that command was , or how conveyed - which he found a hard 
command . but all the things that god would have us do are hard for us to 
do - remember that - and hence , he oftener UNK us than endeavors to 
persuade . and if we obey god , we must UNK ourselves ; and it is in 
this UNK ourselves , wherein the UNK of obeying god consists . 
" with this sin of disobedience in him , jonah still further UNK at 
god , by seeking to flee from him . he thinks that a ship made by men will 
carry him into countries where god does not reign , but only the captains 
of this earth . he UNK about the wharves of joppa , and seeks a ship 
that ' s bound for tarshish . there lurks , perhaps , a hitherto unheeded 
meaning here . by all accounts tarshish could have been no other city 
than the modern cadiz . that ' s the opinion of learned men . and where is 
cadiz , shipmates ? cadiz is in spain ; as far by water , from joppa , 
as jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days , when the 
atlantic was an almost unknown sea . because joppa , the modern jaffa , 
shipmates , is on the most UNK coast of the mediterranean , the 
syrian ; and tarshish or cadiz more than two thousand miles to the 
westward from that , just outside the straits of UNK . see ye 
not then , shipmates , that jonah sought to flee world - wide from god ? 
miserable man ! oh ! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn ; with 
slouched hat and guilty eye , UNK from his god ; UNK among the 
shipping like a vile burglar UNK to cross the seas . so disordered , 
self - UNK is his look , that had there been UNK in those 
days , jonah , on the mere suspicion of something wrong , had been arrested 
ere he touched a deck . how plainly he ' s a fugitive ! no baggage , not a 
hat - box , UNK , or carpet - bag , - no friends UNK him to the wharf 
with their UNK . at last , after much dodging search , he finds the 
tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo ; and as he steps on 
board to see its captain in the cabin , all the sailors for the moment 
desist from hoisting in the UNK , to mark the stranger ' s evil eye . 
jonah sees this ; but in vain he UNK to look all ease and confidence ; 
in vain essays his wretched smile . strong intuitions of the man assure 
the mariners he can be no innocent . in their gamesome but still serious 
way , one whispers to the other - " jack , he ' s robbed a widow ; " or , " UNK , 
do you mark him ; he ' s a UNK ; " or , " harry lad , i guess he ' s the 
UNK that broke jail in old gomorrah , or belike , one of the missing 
murderers from UNK . " another runs to read the bill that ' s stuck 
against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored , offering 
five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a UNK , and 
containing a description of his person . he UNK , and looks from jonah 
to the bill ; while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round jonah , 
prepared to lay their hands upon him . frighted jonah trembles , and 
UNK all his UNK to his face , only looks so much the more a 
coward . he will not confess himself suspected ; but that itself is strong 
suspicion . so he makes the best of it ; and when the sailors find him 
not to be the man that is UNK , they let him pass , and he descends 
into the cabin . 
" ' who ' s there ? ' cries the captain at his busy desk , hurriedly making 
out his papers for the UNK - ' who ' s there ? ' oh ! how that harmless 
question UNK jonah ! for the instant he almost turns to flee again . 
but he UNK . ' i seek a passage in this ship to tarshish ; how soon 
sail ye , sir ? ' thus far the busy captain had not looked up to jonah , 
though the man now stands before him ; but no sooner does he hear that 
hollow voice , than he darts a UNK glance . ' we sail with the 
next coming tide , ' at last he slowly answered , still intently eyeing 
him . ' no sooner , sir ? ' - ' soon enough for any honest man that goes a 
passenger . ' ha ! jonah , that ' s another stab . but he swiftly calls away 
the captain from that UNK . ' i ' ll sail with ye , ' - he says , - ' the 
passage money how much is that ? - i ' ll pay now . ' for it is particularly 
written , shipmates , as if it were a thing not to be UNK in this 
history , ' that he paid the fare UNK ' ere the craft did sail . and 
taken with the UNK , this is full of meaning . 
" now jonah ' s captain , shipmates , was one whose discernment UNK crime 
in any , but whose cupidity UNK it only in the UNK . in this 
world , shipmates , sin that pays its way can travel freely , and without 
a UNK ; whereas virtue , if a UNK , is stopped at all UNK . 
so jonah ' s captain UNK to test the length of jonah ' s purse , ere he 
judge him openly . he UNK him thrice the usual sum ; and it ' s assented 
to . then the captain knows that jonah is a fugitive ; but at the same 
time resolves to help a flight that UNK its rear with gold . yet when 
jonah fairly takes out his purse , prudent suspicions still UNK the 
captain . he rings every coin to find a UNK . not a UNK , any 
way , he UNK ; and jonah is put down for his passage . ' point out my 
state - room , sir , ' says jonah now , ' i ' m travel - weary ; i need sleep . ' 
' thou lookest like it , ' says the captain , ' there ' s thy room . ' jonah 
enters , and would lock the door , but the lock contains no key . hearing 
him foolishly fumbling there , the captain laughs lowly to himself , and 
UNK something about the doors of UNK ' cells being never allowed 
to be locked within . all dressed and dusty as he is , jonah throws 
himself into his berth , and finds the little state - room ceiling almost 
resting on his forehead . the air is close , and jonah gasps . then , in 
that contracted hole , sunk , too , beneath the ship ' s water - line , jonah 
feels the UNK UNK of that UNK hour , when the whale 
shall hold him in the smallest of his bowels ' UNK . 
" screwed at its axis against the side , a swinging lamp slightly 
UNK in jonah ' s room ; and the ship , UNK over towards the wharf 
with the weight of the last UNK received , the lamp , flame and all , 
though in slight motion , still maintains a permanent UNK with 
reference to the room ; though , in truth , infallibly straight itself , it 
but made obvious the false , lying levels among which it hung . the lamp 
UNK and UNK jonah ; as lying in his berth his tormented eyes 
roll round the place , and this thus far successful fugitive finds no 
refuge for his restless glance . but that UNK in the lamp more 
and more appals him . the floor , the ceiling , and the side , are all UNK . 
' oh ! so my conscience hangs in me ! ' he UNK , ' straight upwards , so it 
burns ; but the chambers of my soul are all in UNK ! ' 
" like one who after a night of drunken revelry UNK to his bed , still 
reeling , but with conscience yet pricking him , as the UNK of the 
roman race - horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him ; as 
one who in that miserable plight still turns and turns in UNK anguish , 
praying god for annihilation until the fit be passed ; and at last amid 
the UNK of woe he feels , a deep UNK steals over him , as over the 
man who bleeds to death , for conscience is the wound , and there ' s naught 
to UNK it ; so , after sore UNK in his berth , jonah ' s prodigy 
of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep . 
" and now the time of tide has come ; the ship casts off her cables ; and 
from the deserted wharf the UNK ship for tarshish , all UNK , 
UNK to sea . that ship , my friends , was the first of recorded 
UNK ! the UNK was jonah . but the sea UNK ; he will not 
bear the wicked burden . a dreadful storm comes on , the ship is like to 
break . but now when the UNK calls all hands to UNK her ; 
when boxes , UNK , and UNK are clattering overboard ; when the wind 
is shrieking , and the men are yelling , and every plank thunders with 
trampling feet right over jonah ' s head ; in all this raging tumult , jonah 
sleeps his hideous sleep . he sees no black sky and raging sea , feels not 
the reeling timbers , and little hears he or heeds he the far rush of the 
mighty whale , which even now with open mouth is UNK the seas after 
him . aye , shipmates , jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship - a 
berth in the cabin as i have taken it , and was fast asleep . but the 
frightened master comes to him , and shrieks in his dead ear , ' what 
meanest thou , o , sleeper ! UNK ! ' startled from his UNK by that 
direful cry , jonah UNK to his feet , and UNK to the deck , 
UNK a shroud , to look out upon the sea . but at that moment he is 
sprung upon by a UNK billow leaping over the bulwarks . wave after 
wave thus leaps into the ship , and finding no speedy UNK runs roaring 
fore and aft , till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet afloat . 
and ever , as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the steep 
UNK in the blackness overhead , aghast jonah sees the rearing 
bowsprit pointing high upward , but soon beat downward again towards the 
tormented deep . 
" terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul . in all his UNK 
attitudes , the god - fugitive is now too plainly known . the sailors mark 
him ; more and more certain grow their suspicions of him , and at last , 
fully to test the truth , by UNK the whole matter to high heaven , 
they fall to casting UNK , to see for whose cause this great tempest was 
upon them . the lot is jonah ' s ; that discovered , then how furiously they 
mob him with their questions . ' what is thine occupation ? whence UNK 
thou ? thy country ? what people ? but mark now , my shipmates , the UNK 
of poor jonah . the eager mariners but ask him who he is , and where 
from ; whereas , they not only receive an answer to those questions , 
but likewise another answer to a question not put by them , but the 
UNK answer is forced from jonah by the hard hand of god that is 
upon him . 
" ' i am a hebrew , ' he cries - and then - ' i fear the lord the god of heaven 
who hath made the sea and the dry land ! ' fear him , o jonah ? aye , well 
mightest thou fear the lord god then ! straightway , he now goes on to 
make a full UNK ; whereupon the mariners became more and more 
appalled , but still are pitiful . for when jonah , not yet UNK 
god for mercy , since he but too well knew the darkness of his 
UNK , - when wretched jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him 
forth into the sea , for he knew that for his sake this great tempest 
was upon them ; they mercifully turn from him , and seek by other means to 
save the ship . but all in vain ; the indignant gale UNK UNK ; 
then , with one hand raised UNK to god , with the other they not 
UNK lay hold of jonah . 
" and now behold jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea ; 
when instantly an oily UNK floats out from the east , and the sea 
is still , as jonah carries down the gale with him , leaving smooth 
water behind . he goes down in the whirling heart of such a UNK 
commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into 
the yawning jaws awaiting him ; and the whale shoots - to all his ivory 
teeth , like so many white bolts , upon his UNK . then jonah prayed unto 
the lord out of the fish ' s belly . but observe his prayer , and learn a 
weighty lesson . for sinful as he is , jonah does not UNK and UNK for 
direct deliverance . he feels that his dreadful punishment is just . he 
leaves all his deliverance to god , UNK himself with this , that 
spite of all his pains and pangs , he will still look towards his holy 
temple . and here , shipmates , is true and faithful repentance ; not 
UNK for pardon , but grateful for punishment . and how UNK to 
god was this conduct in jonah , is shown in the UNK deliverance of 
him from the sea and the whale . shipmates , i do not place jonah before 
you to be copied for his sin but i do place him before you as a model 
for repentance . sin not ; but if you do , take heed to UNK of it like 
jonah . " 
while he was speaking these words , the howling of the shrieking , 
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher , who , 
when UNK jonah ' s sea - storm , seemed tossed by a storm himself . 
his deep chest heaved as with a ground - swell ; his tossed arms seemed the 
warring elements at work ; and the thunders that rolled away from off his 
UNK brow , and the light leaping from his eye , made all his simple 
hearers look on him with a quick fear that was strange to them . 
there now came a UNK in his look , as he silently turned over the leaves 
of the book once more ; and , at last , standing motionless , with closed 
eyes , for the moment , seemed UNK with god and himself . 
but again he leaned over towards the people , and bowing his head lowly , 
with an aspect of the deepest yet UNK humility , he spake these 
words : 
" shipmates , god has laid but one hand upon you ; both his hands press 
upon me . i have read ye by what UNK light may be mine the lesson that 
jonah teaches to all sinners ; and therefore to ye , and still more to me , 
for i am a greater UNK than ye . and now how gladly would i come down 
from this mast - head and sit on the hatches there where you sit , and 
listen as you listen , while some one of you UNK me that other and more 
awful lesson which jonah teaches to me , as a pilot of the living god . 
how being an UNK pilot - prophet , or UNK of true things , and 
bidden by the lord to sound those UNK UNK in the ears of a 
wicked nineveh , jonah , appalled at the UNK he should raise , fled 
from his UNK , and sought to escape his duty and his god by taking 
ship at joppa . but god is everywhere ; tarshish he never reached . as we 
have seen , god came upon him in the whale , and swallowed him down to 
living UNK of doom , and with swift UNK tore him along ' into the 
midst of the seas , ' where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand 
fathoms down , and ' the UNK were wrapped about his head , ' and all the 
watery world of woe UNK over him . yet even then beyond the reach of 
any UNK - ' out of the belly of hell ' - when the whale grounded upon 
the ocean ' s utmost bones , even then , god heard the UNK , UNK 
prophet when he cried . then god spake unto the fish ; and from the 
shuddering cold and blackness of the sea , the whale came UNK 
up towards the warm and pleasant sun , and all the UNK of air and 
earth ; and ' UNK out jonah upon the dry land ; ' when the word of the 
lord came a second time ; and jonah , UNK and beaten - his ears , like 
two sea - shells , still UNK UNK of the ocean - jonah 
did the almighty ' s bidding . and what was that , shipmates ? to preach the 
truth to the face of UNK ! that was it ! 
" this , shipmates , this is that other lesson ; and woe to that pilot of 
the living god who UNK it . woe to him whom this world charms from 
UNK duty ! woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when god 
has brewed them into a gale ! woe to him who seeks to please rather than 
to appal ! woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness ! woe 
to him who , in this world , UNK not dishonour ! woe to him who would 
not be true , even though to be false were salvation ! yea , woe to him 
who , as the great pilot paul has it , while preaching to others is 
himself a castaway ! " 
he dropped and fell away from himself for a moment ; then lifting his 
face to them again , showed a deep joy in his eyes , as he cried out with 
a heavenly UNK , - " but oh ! shipmates ! on the starboard hand of 
every woe , there is a sure delight ; and higher the top of that delight , 
than the bottom of the woe is deep . is not the main - truck higher than 
the kelson is low ? delight is to him - a far , far upward , and inward 
delight - who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth , ever 
stands forth his own inexorable self . delight is to him whose strong 
arms yet UNK him , when the ship of this base treacherous world has 
gone down beneath him . delight is to him , who gives no quarter in the 
truth , and UNK , burns , and UNK all sin though he UNK it out 
from under the robes of UNK and UNK . delight , - top - gallant 
delight is to him , who UNK no law or lord , but the lord his 
god , and is only a UNK to heaven . delight is to him , whom all the 
waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake 
from this sure keel of the ages . and eternal delight and deliciousness 
will be his , who coming to lay him down , can say with his final 
breath - o father ! - chiefly known to me by thy rod - mortal or immortal , 
here i die . i have UNK to be thine , more than to be this world ' s , or 
mine own . yet this is nothing : i leave eternity to thee ; for what is man 
that he should live out the lifetime of his god ? " 
he said no more , but slowly waving a benediction , covered his face with 
his hands , and so remained kneeling , till all the people had departed , 
and he was left alone in the place . 
chapter 10 . a bosom friend . 
returning to the spouter - inn from the chapel , i found queequeg there 
quite alone ; he having left the chapel before the benediction some time . 
he was sitting on a bench before the fire , with his feet on the stove 
hearth , and in one hand was holding close up to his face that little 
negro idol of his ; peering hard into its face , and with a jack - knife 
gently whittling away at its nose , meanwhile humming to himself in his 
heathenish way . 
but being now interrupted , he put up the image ; and pretty soon , going 
to the table , took up a large book there , and placing it on his UNK 
began counting the pages with deliberate UNK ; at every fiftieth 
page - as i fancied - stopping a moment , looking vacantly around him , and 
giving utterance to a long - drawn gurgling UNK of astonishment . he 
would then begin again at the next fifty ; seeming to commence at number 
one each time , as though he could not count more than fifty , and it was 
only by such a large number of UNK being found together , that his 
astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited . 
with much interest i sat watching him . savage though he was , and 
UNK marred about the face - at least to my taste - his countenance 
yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable . you cannot 
hide the soul . through all his unearthly tattooings , i thought i saw 
the traces of a simple honest heart ; and in his large , deep eyes , 
fiery black and bold , there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a 
thousand devils . and besides all this , there was a certain lofty bearing 
about the pagan , which even his UNK could not altogether UNK . 
he looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a UNK . 
whether it was , too , that his head being shaved , his forehead was drawn 
out in UNK and brighter relief , and looked more expansive than it 
otherwise would , this i will not venture to UNK ; but certain it was 
his head was phrenologically an excellent one . it may seem ridiculous , 
but it reminded me of general washington ' s head , as seen in the popular 
UNK of him . it had the same long regularly UNK retreating UNK 
from above the UNK , which were likewise very projecting , like two 
long UNK thickly UNK on top . queequeg was george washington 
UNK developed . 
UNK i was thus closely UNK him , half - UNK meanwhile to be 
looking out at the storm from the UNK , he never heeded my presence , 
never troubled himself with so much as a single glance ; but appeared 
wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous book . 
considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the night 
previous , and especially considering the affectionate arm i had found 
thrown over me upon waking in the morning , i thought this indifference 
of his very strange . but savages are strange beings ; at times you do not 
know exactly how to take them . at first they are UNK ; their calm 
self - collectedness of UNK seems a UNK wisdom . i had noticed 
also that queequeg never consorted at all , or but very little , with the 
other seamen in the inn . he made no advances whatever ; appeared to have 
no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances . all this struck 
me as mighty singular ; yet , upon second thoughts , there was something 
almost sublime in it . here was a man some twenty thousand miles from 
home , by the way of cape horn , that is - which was the only way he could 
get there - thrown among people as strange to him as though he were in 
the planet jupiter ; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease ; preserving 
the utmost serenity ; content with his own companionship ; always equal to 
himself . surely this was a touch of fine philosophy ; though no doubt he 
had never heard there was such a thing as that . but , perhaps , to be 
true philosophers , we mortals should not be conscious of so living or 
so striving . so soon as i hear that such or such a man gives himself 
out for a philosopher , i conclude that , like the dyspeptic old woman , he 
must have " broken his UNK . " 
as i sat there in that now lonely room ; the fire burning low , in that 
mild stage when , after its first intensity has UNK the air , it then 
only UNK to be looked at ; the evening shades and phantoms gathering 
round the UNK , and peering in upon us silent , solitary twain ; 
the storm booming without in solemn swells ; i began to be sensible of 
strange feelings . i felt a melting in me . no more my splintered heart 
and maddened hand were turned against the UNK world . this soothing 
savage had redeemed it . there he sat , his very indifference speaking a 
nature in which there lurked no civilized UNK and bland deceits . 
wild he was ; a very sight of sights to see ; yet i began to feel myself 
UNK drawn towards him . and those same things that would have 
UNK most others , they were the very UNK that thus drew me . i ' ll 
try a pagan friend , thought i , since christian kindness has proved but 
hollow courtesy . i drew my bench near him , and made some friendly signs 
and hints , doing my best to talk with him meanwhile . at first he little 
noticed these advances ; but presently , upon my UNK to his last 
night ' s UNK , he made out to ask me whether we were again to be 
bedfellows . i told him yes ; UNK i thought he looked pleased , perhaps 
a little complimented . 
we then turned over the book together , and i endeavored to explain to 
him the purpose of the UNK , and the meaning of the few pictures 
that were in it . thus i soon engaged his interest ; and from that we went 
to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen 
in this famous town . soon i proposed a social smoke ; and , producing 
his pouch and tomahawk , he quietly offered me a puff . and then we sat 
exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his , and keeping it regularly 
passing between us . 
if there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the pagan ' s 
breast , this pleasant , genial smoke we had , soon UNK it out , and left 
us cronies . he seemed to take to me quite as naturally and UNK as 
i to him ; and when our smoke was over , he pressed his forehead against 
mine , UNK me round the waist , and said that UNK we were 
UNK ; meaning , in his country ' s phrase , that we were bosom friends ; 
he would gladly die for me , if need should be . in a UNK , this 
sudden flame of UNK would have seemed far too UNK , a thing 
to be much distrusted ; but in this simple savage those old rules would 
not UNK . 
after supper , and another social chat and smoke , we went to our room 
together . he made me a present of his embalmed head ; took out his 
enormous tobacco UNK , and groping under the tobacco , drew out 
some thirty dollars in silver ; then spreading them on the table , and 
mechanically dividing them into two equal portions , pushed one of them 
towards me , and said it was mine . i was going to UNK ; but he 
UNK me by UNK them into my trowsers ' pockets . i let them stay . 
he then went about his evening prayers , took out his idol , and removed 
the paper fireboard . by certain signs and symptoms , i thought he seemed 
anxious for me to join him ; but well knowing what was to follow , i 
UNK a moment whether , in case he invited me , i would UNK or 
otherwise . 
i was a good christian ; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible 
presbyterian church . how then could i unite with this wild idolator in 
worshipping his piece of wood ? but what is worship ? thought i . do 
you suppose now , ishmael , that the magnanimous god of heaven and 
earth - pagans and all included - can possibly be jealous of an 
insignificant bit of black wood ? impossible ! but what is worship ? - to do 
the will of god - that is worship . and what is the will of god ? - to do to 
my fellow man what i would have my fellow man to do to me - that is the 
will of god . now , queequeg is my fellow man . and what do i wish that 
this queequeg would do to me ? why , unite with me in my particular 
presbyterian form of worship . consequently , i must then unite with him 
in his ; UNK , i must turn idolator . so i kindled the shavings ; helped 
UNK up the innocent little idol ; offered him burnt biscuit with 
queequeg ; UNK before him twice or thrice ; UNK his nose ; and that 
done , we undressed and went to bed , at peace with our own UNK 
and all the world . but we did not go to sleep without some little chat . 
how it is i know not ; but there is no place like a bed for confidential 
disclosures between friends . man and wife , they say , there open the very 
bottom of their souls to each other ; and some old UNK often lie 
and chat over old times till nearly morning . thus , then , in our hearts ' 
UNK , lay i and queequeg - a cosy , loving pair . 
chapter UNK . UNK . 
we had UNK thus in bed , chatting and UNK at short intervals , and 
queequeg now and then UNK throwing his brown tattooed legs 
over mine , and then drawing them back ; so entirely sociable and free 
and easy were we ; when , at last , by reason of our UNK , what 
little UNK remained in us altogether departed , and we felt like 
getting up again , though day - break was yet some way down the future . 
yes , we became very wakeful ; so much so that our recumbent position 
began to grow UNK , and by little and little we found ourselves 
sitting up ; the clothes well tucked around us , leaning against the 
head - board with our four knees drawn up close together , and our two 
noses bending over them , as if our UNK were warming - pans . we felt 
very nice and snug , the more so since it was so UNK out of doors ; 
indeed out of bed - clothes too , seeing that there was no fire in the 
room . the more so , i say , because truly to enjoy bodily warmth , some 
small part of you must be cold , for there is no quality in this world 
that is not what it is merely by contrast . nothing exists in itself . if 
you UNK yourself that you are all over comfortable , and have been so 
a long time , then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more . but if , 
like queequeg and me in the bed , the tip of your nose or the crown 
of your head be slightly UNK , why then , indeed , in the general 
consciousness you feel most UNK and UNK warm . for this 
reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire , which 
is one of the luxurious UNK of the rich . for the height of this 
sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and 
your snugness and the cold of the outer air . then there you lie like the 
one warm UNK in the heart of an arctic crystal . 
we had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time , when all at 
once i thought i would open my eyes ; for when between sheets , whether 
by day or by night , and whether asleep or awake , i have a way of always 
keeping my eyes shut , in order the more to UNK the snugness 
of being in bed . because no man can ever feel his own identity aright 
except his eyes be closed ; as if darkness were indeed the proper element 
of our UNK , though light be more congenial to our UNK part . upon 
opening my eyes then , and coming out of my own pleasant and self - created 
darkness into the UNK and UNK outer gloom of the UNK 
twelve - o ' clock - at - night , i experienced a disagreeable UNK . nor did 
i at all object to the hint from queequeg that perhaps it were best to 
strike a light , seeing that we were so wide awake ; and besides he felt 
a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his tomahawk . be it said , 
that though i had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in the 
bed the night before , yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when 
love once comes to bend them . for now i liked nothing better than to 
have queequeg smoking by me , even in bed , because he seemed to be full 
of such serene household joy then . i no more felt unduly concerned for 
the landlord ' s policy of insurance . i was only alive to the condensed 
confidential UNK of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real 
friend . with our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders , we now passed 
the tomahawk from one to the other , till slowly there grew over us a 
blue hanging tester of smoke , illuminated by the flame of the new - lit 
lamp . 
whether it was that this undulating tester rolled the savage away to far 
distant scenes , i know not , but he now spoke of his native island ; and , 
eager to hear his history , i begged him to go on and tell it . he gladly 
complied . though at the time i but ill comprehended not a few of his 
words , yet subsequent disclosures , when i had become more familiar with 
his broken UNK , now enable me to present the whole story such as 
it may prove in the mere skeleton i give . 
chapter UNK . UNK . 
queequeg was a native of rokovoko , an island far away to the west and 
south . it is not down in any map ; true places never are . 
when a new - UNK savage running wild about his native UNK in 
a grass UNK , followed by the UNK UNK , as if he were a green 
sapling ; even then , in queequeg ' s ambitious soul , lurked a strong desire 
to see something more of christendom than a specimen whaler or two . his 
father was a high chief , a king ; his UNK a high priest ; and on the 
maternal side he boasted UNK who were the wives of unconquerable 
warriors . there was excellent blood in his veins - royal stuff ; though 
sadly UNK , i fear , by the cannibal UNK he nourished in his 
untutored youth . 
a sag harbor ship visited his father ' s bay , and queequeg sought a 
passage to christian lands . but the ship , having her full UNK of 
seamen , UNK his suit ; and not all the king his father ' s influence 
could prevail . but queequeg vowed a vow . alone in his canoe , he paddled 
off to a distant strait , which he knew the ship must pass through when 
she quitted the island . on one side was a coral reef ; on the other a low 
tongue of land , covered with UNK thickets that grew out into the 
water . hiding his canoe , still afloat , among these thickets , with its 
prow UNK , he sat down in the stern , paddle low in hand ; and when the 
ship was gliding by , like a flash he darted out ; gained her side ; with 
one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe ; UNK up 
the chains ; and throwing himself at full length upon the deck , UNK 
a ring - bolt there , and swore not to let it go , though UNK in pieces . 
in vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard ; suspended a 
UNK over his naked wrists ; queequeg was the son of a king , and 
queequeg UNK not . struck by his desperate UNK , and his wild 
desire to visit christendom , the captain at last UNK , and told 
him he might make himself at home . but this fine young savage - this sea 
prince of UNK , never saw the captain ' s cabin . they put him down among 
the sailors , and made a whaleman of him . but like czar peter content to 
toil in the UNK of foreign cities , queequeg UNK no seeming 
UNK , if thereby he might happily gain the power of UNK his 
untutored UNK . for at bottom - so he told me - he was UNK by a 
profound desire to learn among the christians , the arts whereby to 
make his people still UNK than they were ; and more than that , 
still better than they were . but , alas ! the UNK of whalemen soon 
convinced him that even christians could be both miserable and wicked ; 
infinitely more so , than all his father ' s UNK . arrived at last in 
old sag harbor ; and seeing what the sailors did there ; and then going on 
to nantucket , and seeing how they spent their wages in that place also , 
poor queequeg gave it up for lost . thought he , it ' s a wicked world in 
all meridians ; i ' ll die a pagan . 
and thus an old idolator at heart , he yet lived among these christians , 
wore their clothes , and tried to talk their UNK . hence the queer 
ways about him , though now some time from home . 
by hints , i asked him whether he did not propose going back , and having 
a coronation ; since he might now consider his father dead and gone , he 
being very old and UNK at the last accounts . he answered no , not yet ; 
and added that he was fearful UNK , or rather christians , had 
UNK him for ascending the pure and UNK throne of thirty pagan 
kings before him . but by and by , he said , he would return , - as soon as 
he felt himself baptized again . for the UNK , however , he proposed to 
sail about , and sow his wild UNK in all four oceans . they had made a 
harpooneer of him , and that barbed iron was in UNK of a UNK now . 
i asked him what might be his immediate purpose , touching his future 
movements . he answered , to go to sea again , in his old vocation . upon 
this , i told him that whaling was my own design , and informed him of my 
intention to sail out of nantucket , as being the most promising port for 
an adventurous whaleman to embark from . he at once resolved to UNK 
me to that island , ship aboard the same vessel , get into the same watch , 
the same boat , the same mess with me , in short to share my every UNK ; 
with both my hands in his , boldly dip into the UNK of both worlds . 
to all this i UNK assented ; for besides the affection i now felt 
for queequeg , he was an experienced harpooneer , and as such , could not 
fail to be of great UNK to one , who , like me , was wholly ignorant 
of the mysteries of whaling , though well acquainted with the sea , as 
known to merchant seamen . 
his story being ended with his pipe ' s last dying puff , queequeg embraced 
me , pressed his forehead against mine , and blowing out the light , we 
rolled over from each other , this way and that , and very soon were 
sleeping . 
chapter 13 . wheelbarrow . 
next morning , UNK , after disposing of the embalmed head to a UNK , 
for a block , i settled my own and comrade ' s bill ; using , however , my 
comrade ' s money . the grinning landlord , as well as the boarders , seemed 
UNK tickled at the sudden UNK which had sprung up between 
me and queequeg - especially as peter coffin ' s cock and bull stories 
about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person 
whom i now UNK with . 
we borrowed a wheelbarrow , and UNK our things , including my own 
poor carpet - bag , and queequeg ' s canvas UNK and hammock , away we went 
down to " the moss , " the little nantucket packet schooner moored at the 
wharf . as we were going along the people UNK ; not at queequeg 
so much - for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their 
streets , - but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms . but we 
heeded them not , going along UNK the barrow by turns , and queequeg 
now and then stopping to UNK the sheath on his harpoon barbs . i asked 
him why he carried such a UNK thing with him ashore , and 
whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoons . to this , in 
substance , he replied , that though what i hinted was true enough , yet 
he had a particular affection for his own harpoon , because it was of 
assured stuff , well tried in many a mortal combat , and deeply intimate 
with the hearts of whales . in short , like many inland UNK 
and mowers , who go into the UNK ' meadows armed with their own 
scythes - though in no wise obliged to furnish them - even so , queequeg , 
for his own private reasons , UNK his own harpoon . 
shifting the barrow from my hand to his , he told me a funny story about 
the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen . it was in sag harbor . the owners 
of his ship , it seems , had UNK him one , in which to carry his 
heavy chest to his boarding house . not to seem ignorant about the 
thing - though in truth he was entirely so , concerning the precise way in 
which to UNK the barrow - queequeg puts his chest upon it ; UNK it 
fast ; and then shoulders the barrow and UNK up the wharf . " why , " 
said i , " queequeg , you might have known better than that , one would 
think . didn ' t the people laugh ? " 
upon this , he told me another story . the people of his island of 
rokovoko , it seems , at their wedding UNK express the fragrant water 
of young UNK into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl ; and 
this punchbowl always forms the great central UNK on the braided 
mat where the feast is held . now a certain grand merchant ship once 
touched at rokovoko , and its commander - from all accounts , a very 
stately punctilious gentleman , at least for a sea captain - this 
commander was invited to the wedding feast of queequeg ' s sister , a 
pretty young UNK just turned of ten . well ; when all the wedding 
guests were assembled at the UNK ' s bamboo UNK , this captain 
UNK in , and being assigned the post of honour , placed himself over 
against the punchbowl , and between the high priest and his majesty the 
king , queequeg ' s father . grace being said , - for those people have their 
grace as well as we - though queequeg told me that unlike us , who at such 
times look downwards to our UNK , they , on the contrary , UNK the 
UNK , glance upwards to the great UNK of all UNK - grace , i say , 
being said , the high priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony 
of the island ; that is , UNK his UNK and UNK fingers 
into the bowl before the blessed UNK UNK . seeing himself 
placed next the priest , and noting the ceremony , and thinking 
himself - being captain of a ship - as having plain UNK over a 
mere island king , especially in the king ' s own house - the captain coolly 
proceeds to wash his hands in the punchbowl ; - taking it i suppose for a 
huge finger - glass . " now , " said queequeg , " what you UNK now ? - didn ' t our 
people laugh ? " 
at last , passage paid , and UNK safe , we stood on board the schooner . 
hoisting sail , it glided down the UNK river . on one side , new 
bedford rose in terraces of streets , their ice - covered trees all 
glittering in the clear , cold air . huge hills and mountains of casks on 
casks were piled upon her wharves , and side by side the world - wandering 
whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last ; while from others 
came a sound of carpenters and coopers , with blended noises of fires and 
UNK to UNK the pitch , all UNK that new cruises were on the 
start ; that one most perilous and long voyage ended , only begins a 
second ; and a second ended , only begins a third , and so on , for ever 
and for aye . such is the UNK , yea , the UNK of all 
earthly effort . 
gaining the more open water , the bracing breeze UNK fresh ; the little 
moss tossed the quick foam from her bows , as a young colt his UNK . 
how i snuffed that tartar air ! - how i UNK that UNK earth ! - that 
common highway all over dented with the marks of UNK heels and 
hoofs ; and turned me to admire the UNK of the sea which will 
permit no UNK . 
at the same foam - fountain , queequeg seemed to drink and UNK with me . 
his dusky nostrils swelled apart ; he showed his filed and pointed teeth . 
on , on we flew ; and our offing gained , the moss did homage to the 
blast ; UNK and dived her bows as a slave before the sultan . sideways 
leaning , we sideways darted ; every UNK UNK like a wire ; the 
two tall masts UNK like indian canes in land tornadoes . so full of 
this reeling scene were we , as we stood by the plunging bowsprit , that 
for some time we did not notice the UNK glances of the passengers , a 
lubber - like UNK , who marvelled that two fellow beings should be so 
UNK ; as though a white man were anything more UNK than a 
UNK negro . but there were some UNK and bumpkins there , who , 
by their intense greenness , must have come from the heart and centre of 
all verdure . queequeg caught one of these young UNK UNK him 
behind his back . i thought the bumpkin ' s hour of doom was come . dropping 
his harpoon , the brawny savage caught him in his arms , and by an almost 
miraculous dexterity and strength , sent him high up bodily into the air ; 
then slightly UNK his stern in mid - somerset , the fellow landed with 
bursting lungs upon his feet , while queequeg , turning his back upon him , 
lighted his tomahawk pipe and passed it to me for a puff . 
" capting ! capting ! " yelled the bumpkin , running towards that officer ; 
" capting , capting , here ' s the devil . " 
" UNK , UNK sir , " cried the captain , a gaunt rib of the sea , UNK 
up to queequeg , " what in thunder do you mean by that ? don ' t you know you 
might have killed that chap ? " 
" what him say ? " said queequeg , as he mildly turned to me . 
" he say , " said i , " that you came near kill - e that man there , " pointing 
to the still shivering greenhorn . 
" kill - e , " cried queequeg , twisting his tattooed face into an unearthly 
expression of disdain , " ah ! him UNK small - e fish - e ; queequeg no kill - e 
so small - e fish - e ; queequeg kill - e big whale ! " 
" look you , " roared the captain , " i ' ll kill - e you , you cannibal , if you 
try any more of your UNK aboard here ; so mind your eye . " 
but it so happened just then , that it was high time for the captain to 
mind his own eye . the prodigious strain upon the main - sail had parted 
the weather - sheet , and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to 
side , completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck . the poor 
fellow whom queequeg had handled so UNK , was swept overboard ; all 
hands were in a panic ; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it , 
seemed madness . it flew from right to left , and back again , almost 
in one UNK of a watch , and every instant seemed on the point of 
snapping into splinters . nothing was done , and nothing seemed capable of 
being done ; those on deck rushed towards the bows , and stood eyeing the 
boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale . in the 
midst of this consternation , queequeg dropped UNK to his knees , and 
crawling under the path of the boom , UNK hold of a rope , secured one 
end to the bulwarks , and then flinging the other like a UNK , caught it 
round the boom as it swept over his head , and at the next jerk , the spar 
was that way UNK , and all was safe . the schooner was run into the 
wind , and while the hands were clearing away the stern boat , queequeg , 
stripped to the waist , darted from the side with a long living UNK of 
a leap . for three minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog , 
throwing his long arms straight out before him , and by turns revealing 
his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam . i looked at the grand 
and glorious fellow , but saw no one to be saved . the greenhorn had gone 
down . shooting himself perpendicularly from the water , queequeg , now 
took an instant ' s glance around him , and seeming to see just how matters 
were , dived down and disappeared . a few minutes more , and he rose again , 
one arm still striking out , and with the other dragging a lifeless form . 
the boat soon picked them up . the poor bumpkin was UNK . all hands 
UNK queequeg a noble trump ; the captain begged his pardon . from that 
hour i UNK to queequeg like a UNK ; yea , till poor queequeg took 
his last long dive . 
was there ever such UNK ? he did not seem to think that he at 
all deserved a UNK from the humane and magnanimous UNK . he only 
asked for water - fresh water - something to UNK the brine off ; that 
done , he put on dry clothes , lighted his pipe , and leaning against the 
bulwarks , and mildly eyeing those around him , seemed to be saying 
to himself - " it ' s a mutual , joint - stock world , in all meridians . we 
cannibals must help these christians . " 
chapter UNK . nantucket . 
nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning ; so , after a 
fine run , we safely arrived in nantucket . 
nantucket ! take out your map and look at it . see what a real corner of 
the world it UNK ; how it stands there , away off shore , more lonely 
than the UNK UNK . look at it - a mere UNK , and UNK of 
sand ; all beach , without a background . there is more sand there than 
you would use in twenty years as a substitute for UNK paper . some 
gamesome UNK will tell you that they have to plant UNK there , they 
don ' t grow naturally ; that they UNK UNK UNK ; that they have 
to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask ; that 
pieces of wood in nantucket are carried about like bits of the true 
cross in rome ; that people there plant UNK before their houses , 
to get under the shade in summer time ; that one blade of grass makes an 
UNK , three blades in a day ' s walk a prairie ; that they wear UNK 
shoes , something like UNK snow - shoes ; that they are so shut up , 
belted about , every way inclosed , surrounded , and made an utter island 
of by the ocean , that to their very chairs and tables small clams will 
sometimes be found adhering , as to the backs of sea UNK . but these 
UNK only show that nantucket is no illinois . 
look now at the wondrous UNK story of how this island was 
settled by the red - men . thus goes the legend . in UNK times an eagle 
UNK down upon the new england coast , and carried off an UNK 
indian in his UNK . with loud UNK the UNK saw their child borne 
out of sight over the wide waters . they resolved to follow in the same 
direction . setting out in their canoes , after a perilous passage they 
discovered the island , and there they found an empty ivory casket , - the 
poor little indian ' s skeleton . 
what wonder , then , that these nantucketers , born on a beach , should take 
to the sea for a UNK ! they first caught crabs and UNK in 
the sand ; grown UNK , they UNK out with UNK for UNK ; more 
experienced , they pushed off in boats and captured cod ; and at last , 
UNK a navy of great ships on the sea , explored this watery world ; 
put an incessant belt of UNK round it ; peeped in 
at UNK ' s straits ; and in all seasons and all oceans declared 
everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the 
flood ; most monstrous and most mountainous ! that UNK , salt - sea 
UNK , clothed with such UNK of unconscious power , that 
his very UNK are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and 
malicious assaults ! 
and thus have these naked nantucketers , these sea hermits , issuing from 
their ant - hill in the sea , UNK and UNK the watery world like 
so many UNK ; UNK out among them the atlantic , pacific , and 
indian oceans , as the three pirate powers did poland . let america add 
mexico to UNK , and pile cuba upon UNK ; let the english UNK 
all india , and hang out their blazing UNK from the sun ; two thirds 
of this UNK globe are the nantucketer ' s . for the sea is his ; he 
UNK it , as emperors own UNK ; other seamen having but a right of 
way through it . merchant ships are but UNK bridges ; armed ones but 
floating UNK ; even pirates and UNK , though following the sea 
as UNK the road , they but plunder other ships , other fragments of 
the land like themselves , without seeking to draw their living from the 
bottomless deep itself . the nantucketer , he alone resides and UNK on 
the sea ; he alone , in bible language , goes down to it in ships ; to and 
fro ploughing it as his own special plantation . there is his home ; there 
lies his business , which a noah ' s flood would not UNK , though it 
UNK all the millions in china . he lives on the sea , as prairie 
cocks in the prairie ; he hides among the waves , he climbs them as 
UNK hunters climb the alps . for years he knows not the land ; so 
that when he comes to it at last , it smells like another world , more 
strangely than the moon would to an UNK . with the landless gull , 
that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep between billows ; 
so at nightfall , the nantucketer , out of sight of land , UNK his sails , 
and lays him to his rest , while under his very pillow rush herds of 
UNK and whales . 
chapter UNK . chowder . 
it was quite late in the evening when the little moss came snugly 
to anchor , and queequeg and i went ashore ; so we could attend to no 
business that day , at least none but a supper and a bed . the landlord of 
the spouter - inn had recommended us to his cousin hosea hussey of the 
try pots , whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kept 
UNK in all nantucket , and moreover he had assured us that cousin 
hosea , as he called him , was famous for his chowders . in short , he 
plainly hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot - luck at 
the try pots . but the directions he had given us about keeping a yellow 
warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to the 
larboard , and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a 
corner three points to the starboard , and that done , then ask the first 
man we met where the place was : these crooked directions of his very 
much puzzled us at first , especially as , at the outset , queequeg 
insisted that the yellow warehouse - our first point of departure - must 
be left on the larboard hand , whereas i had UNK peter coffin to 
say it was on the starboard . however , by dint of beating about a little 
in the dark , and now and then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant 
to inquire the way , we at last came to something which there was no 
mistaking . 
two enormous wooden pots painted black , and suspended by UNK ' ears , 
swung from the cross - trees of an old top - mast , planted in front of an 
old doorway . the horns of the cross - trees were UNK off on the other 
side , so that this old top - mast looked not a little like a gallows . 
perhaps i was over UNK to such impressions at the time , but i 
could not help staring at this gallows with a vague UNK . a sort of 
UNK was in my neck as i gazed up to the two remaining horns ; yes , two 
of them , one for queequeg , and one for me . it ' s ominous , thinks i . a 
coffin my UNK upon UNK in my first whaling port ; UNK 
staring at me in the whalemen ' s chapel ; and here a gallows ! and a pair 
of prodigious black pots too ! are these last throwing out oblique hints 
touching tophet ? 
i was called from these reflections by the sight of a UNK woman 
with yellow hair and a yellow UNK , standing in the porch of the inn , 
under a dull red lamp swinging there , that looked much like an injured 
eye , and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen 
shirt . 
" get along with ye , " said she to the man , " or i ' ll be combing ye ! " 
" come on , queequeg , " said i , " all right . there ' s mrs . hussey . " 
and so it turned out ; mr . hosea hussey being from home , but leaving 
mrs . hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs . upon 
making known our desires for a supper and a bed , mrs . hussey , UNK 
further scolding for the present , UNK us into a little room , and 
UNK us at a table spread with the relics of a recently concluded 
repast , turned round to us and said - " clam or cod ? " 
" what ' s that about UNK , ma ' am ? " said i , with much UNK . 
" clam or cod ? " she repeated . 
" a clam for supper ? a cold clam ; is that what you mean , mrs . hussey ? " 
says i , " but that ' s a rather cold and UNK UNK in the winter 
time , ain ' t it , mrs . hussey ? " 
but being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple 
shirt , who was waiting for it in the entry , and seeming to hear nothing 
but the word " clam , " mrs . hussey hurried towards an open door leading to 
the kitchen , and UNK out " clam for two , " disappeared . 
" queequeg , " said i , " do you think that we can make out a supper for us 
both on one clam ? " 
however , a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie the 
apparently cheerless prospect before us . but when that smoking chowder 
came in , the mystery was UNK explained . oh , sweet friends ! 
hearken to me . it was made of small juicy clams , scarcely UNK than 
UNK UNK , mixed with UNK ship biscuit , and salted UNK cut up into 
little UNK ; the whole UNK with butter , and UNK seasoned 
with pepper and salt . our appetites being UNK by the frosty 
voyage , and in particular , queequeg seeing his favourite UNK food 
before him , and the chowder being UNK excellent , we UNK 
it with great expedition : when leaning back a moment and bethinking 
me of mrs . hussey ' s clam and cod announcement , i thought i would try 
a little experiment . stepping to the kitchen door , i uttered the word 
" cod " with great emphasis , and resumed my seat . in a few moments the 
UNK steam came forth again , but with a different flavor , and in good 
time a fine cod - chowder was placed before us . 
we resumed business ; and while UNK our UNK in the bowl , thinks i 
to myself , i wonder now if this here has any effect on the head ? 
what ' s that UNK saying about chowder - headed people ? " but look , 
queequeg , ain ' t that a live eel in your bowl ? where ' s your harpoon ? " 
UNK of all fishy places was the try pots , which well deserved 
its name ; for the pots there were always boiling chowders . chowder for 
breakfast , and chowder for dinner , and chowder for supper , till you 
began to look for fish - bones coming through your clothes . the area 
before the house was paved with clam - shells . mrs . hussey wore a polished 
UNK of UNK vertebra ; and hosea hussey had his account books 
bound in superior old shark - skin . there was a fishy flavor to the milk , 
too , which i could not at all account for , till one morning happening 
to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen ' s boats , i saw 
hosea ' s UNK UNK feeding on fish UNK , and marching along the 
sand with each foot in a cod ' s decapitated head , looking very slip - UNK , 
i assure ye . 
supper concluded , we received a lamp , and directions from mrs . hussey 
concerning the nearest way to bed ; but , as queequeg was about to UNK 
me up the stairs , the lady reached forth her arm , and demanded his 
harpoon ; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers . " why not ? " said i ; 
" every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon - but why not ? " " because 
it ' s dangerous , " says she . " ever since young stiggs coming from that 
UNK ' UNK v ' UNK ' UNK of his , when he was gone four years and a half , with 
only three barrels of UNK , was found dead in my first floor back , with 
his harpoon in his side ; ever since then i allow no boarders to take 
UNK dangerous UNK in their rooms at night . so , mr . queequeg " ( for 
she had learned his name ) , " i will just take this here iron , and keep 
it for you till morning . but the chowder ; clam or cod to - morrow for 
breakfast , men ? " 
" both , " says i ; " and let ' s have a couple of smoked herring by way of 
variety . " 
chapter UNK . the ship . 
in bed we UNK our UNK for the morrow . but to my surprise and 
no small concern , queequeg now gave me to understand , that he had been 
diligently UNK yojo - the name of his black little god - and yojo 
had told him two or three times over , and strongly insisted upon it 
UNK , that instead of our going together among the whaling - fleet in 
harbor , and in concert selecting our craft ; instead of this , i say , yojo 
earnestly UNK that the selection of the ship should rest wholly 
with me , inasmuch as yojo UNK UNK us ; and , in order to 
do so , had already pitched upon a vessel , which , if left to myself , i , 
ishmael , should infallibly light upon , for all the world as though it 
had turned out by chance ; and in that vessel i must immediately ship 
myself , for the present UNK of queequeg . 
i have forgotten to mention that , in many things , queequeg placed great 
confidence in the excellence of yojo ' s judgment and surprising UNK 
of things ; and cherished yojo with considerable esteem , as a rather good 
sort of god , who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole , but in all 
cases did not succeed in his benevolent UNK . 
now , this plan of queequeg ' s , or rather yojo ' s , touching the selection 
of our craft ; i did not like that plan at all . i had not a little UNK 
upon queequeg ' s UNK to point out the whaler best fitted to carry 
us and our fortunes securely . but as all my UNK produced 
no effect upon queequeg , i was obliged to UNK ; and accordingly 
prepared to set about this business with a determined rushing sort 
of energy and UNK , that should quickly settle that UNK little 
affair . next morning early , leaving queequeg shut up with yojo in our 
little UNK - for it seemed that it was some sort of UNK or ramadan , 
or day of fasting , UNK , and prayer with queequeg and yojo that 
day ; how it was i never could find out , for , though i applied myself 
to it several times , i never could master his UNK and UNK 
articles - leaving queequeg , then , fasting on his tomahawk pipe , and yojo 
warming himself at his sacrificial fire of shavings , i sallied out among 
the shipping . after much prolonged sauntering and many random UNK , 
i UNK that there were three ships up for three - years ' voyages - the 
devil - dam , the tit - bit , and the pequod . devil - dam , i do not know the 
origin of ; tit - bit is obvious ; pequod , you will no doubt remember , was 
the name of a UNK tribe of massachusetts indians ; now extinct 
as the ancient UNK . i peered and UNK about the devil - dam ; from her , 
UNK over to the tit - bit ; and finally , going on board the pequod , 
looked around her for a moment , and then decided that this was the very 
ship for us . 
you may have seen many a UNK craft in your day , for aught i 
know ; - square - UNK UNK ; mountainous japanese junks ; butter - box 
UNK , and what not ; but take my word for it , you never saw such a 
rare old craft as this same rare old pequod . she was a ship of the old 
school , rather small if anything ; with an old - fashioned claw - footed look 
about her . long seasoned and weather - stained in the typhoons and calms 
of all four oceans , her old hull ' s complexion was darkened like a french 
grenadier ' s , who has alike fought in egypt and siberia . her venerable 
bows looked bearded . her masts - cut somewhere on the coast of japan , 
where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale - her masts stood 
stiffly up like the UNK of the three old kings of cologne . her 
ancient decks were worn and wrinkled , like the UNK - worshipped 
flag - stone in UNK cathedral where UNK UNK . but to all these 
her old UNK , were added new and marvellous features , pertaining 
to the wild business that for more than half a century she had followed . 
old captain peleg , many years her chief - mate , before he commanded 
another vessel of his own , and now a retired seaman , and one of the 
principal owners of the pequod , - this old peleg , during the term of his 
chief - UNK , had built upon her original UNK , and inlaid 
it , all over , with a UNK both of material and device , UNK 
by anything except it be UNK - UNK ' s carved UNK or UNK . she 
was UNK like any barbaric UNK emperor , his neck heavy with 
UNK of polished ivory . she was a thing of trophies . a cannibal of 
a craft , UNK herself forth in the chased bones of her UNK . all 
round , her UNK , open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous 
jaw , with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale , inserted there for 
pins , to fasten her old hempen thews and tendons to . those thews ran not 
through base blocks of land wood , but UNK travelled over sheaves of 
sea - ivory . UNK a UNK wheel at her reverend helm , she UNK 
there a tiller ; and that tiller was in one mass , curiously carved 
from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe . the helmsman who 
steered by that tiller in a tempest , felt like the tartar , when he holds 
back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw . a noble craft , but somehow a 
most melancholy ! all noble things are touched with that . 
now when i looked about the quarter - deck , for some one having authority , 
in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage , at first i saw 
nobody ; but i could not well UNK a strange sort of tent , or 
rather wigwam , pitched a little behind the main - mast . it seemed only 
a temporary UNK used in port . it was of a UNK shape , some ten 
feet high ; consisting of the long , huge slabs of limber black bone taken 
from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right - whale . 
planted with their broad ends on the deck , a circle of these slabs UNK 
together , mutually UNK towards each other , and at the UNK united in 
a tufted point , where the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like the 
top - knot on some old UNK UNK ' s head . a triangular opening 
faced towards the bows of the ship , so that the UNK commanded a 
complete view forward . 
and half concealed in this queer UNK , i at length found one who 
by his aspect seemed to have authority ; and who , it being noon , and 
the ship ' s work suspended , was now UNK respite from the burden of 
command . he was seated on an old - fashioned oaken chair , wriggling all 
over with curious carving ; and the bottom of which was formed of a 
stout interlacing of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam was 
UNK . 
there was nothing so very particular , perhaps , about the appearance of 
the UNK man i saw ; he was brown and brawny , like most old seamen , 
and heavily rolled up in blue pilot - cloth , cut in the quaker style ; 
only there was a fine and almost UNK net - work of the minutest 
wrinkles interlacing round his eyes , which must have arisen from 
his continual UNK in many hard gales , and always looking to 
windward ; - for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become UNK 
together . such eye - wrinkles are very UNK in a scowl . 
" is this the captain of the pequod ? " said i , advancing to the door of 
the tent . 
" supposing it be the captain of the pequod , what dost thou want of him ? " 
he demanded . 
" i was thinking of shipping . " 
" thou wast , wast thou ? i see thou art no nantucketer - ever been in a 
stove boat ? " 
" no , sir , i never have . " 
" dost know nothing at all about whaling , i dare say - eh ? 
" nothing , sir ; but i have no doubt i shall soon learn . i ' ve been several 
voyages in the merchant service , and i think that - " 
" merchant service be damned . talk not that lingo to me . dost see that 
leg ? - i ' ll take that leg away from thy stern , if ever thou UNK of 
the marchant service to me again . marchant service indeed ! i suppose now 
ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships . 
but flukes ! man , what makes thee want to go a whaling , eh ? - it looks 
a little suspicious , don ' t it , eh ? - hast not been a pirate , hast 
thou ? - didst not UNK thy last captain , didst thou ? - dost not think of 
murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea ? " 
i UNK my innocence of these things . i saw that under the mask 
of these half humorous UNK , this old seaman , as an UNK 
UNK nantucketer , was full of his insular prejudices , and rather 
distrustful of all UNK , unless they hailed from cape cod or the 
vineyard . 
" but what takes thee a - whaling ? i want to know that before i think of 
shipping ye . " 
" well , sir , i want to see what whaling is . i want to see the world . " 
" want to see what whaling is , eh ? have ye clapped eye on captain ahab ? " 
" who is captain ahab , sir ? " 
" aye , aye , i thought so . captain ahab is the captain of this ship . " 
" i am mistaken then . i thought i was speaking to the captain himself . " 
" thou art speaking to captain peleg - that ' s who ye are speaking to , 
young man . it belongs to me and captain bildad to see the pequod fitted 
out for the voyage , and supplied with all her needs , including crew . we 
are part owners and UNK . but as i was going to say , if thou wantest 
to know what whaling is , as thou UNK ye do , i can put ye in a way of 
finding it out before ye bind yourself to it , past backing out . clap 
eye on captain ahab , young man , and thou wilt find that he has only one 
leg . " 
" what do you mean , sir ? was the other one lost by a whale ? " 
" lost by a whale ! young man , come nearer to me : it was devoured , 
chewed up , UNK by the UNK UNK that ever UNK a 
boat ! - ah , ah ! " 
i was a little alarmed by his energy , perhaps also a little touched at 
the hearty grief in his concluding exclamation , but said as calmly as i 
could , " what you say is no doubt true enough , sir ; but how could i know 
there was any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale , though indeed 
i might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident . " 
" look ye now , young man , thy lungs are a sort of soft , d ' ye see ; thou 
dost not talk shark a bit . sure , ye ' ve been to sea before now ; sure of 
that ? " 
" sir , " said i , " i thought i told you that i had been four voyages in the 
merchant - " 
" hard down out of that ! mind what i said about the marchant 
service - don ' t UNK me - i won ' t have it . but let us understand each 
other . i have given thee a hint about what whaling is ; do ye yet feel 
inclined for it ? " 
" i do , sir . " 
" very good . now , art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale ' s 
throat , and then jump after it ? answer , quick ! " 
" i am , sir , if it should be UNK indispensable to do so ; not to be 
got rid of , that is ; which i don ' t take to be the fact . " 
" good again . now then , thou not only wantest to go a - whaling , to find 
out by experience what whaling is , but ye also want to go in order to 
see the world ? was not that what ye said ? i thought so . well then , just 
step forward there , and take a peep over the weather - bow , and then back 
to me and tell me what ye see there . " 
for a moment i stood a little puzzled by this curious request , not 
knowing exactly how to take it , whether humorously or in earnest . but 
concentrating all his crow ' s feet into one scowl , captain peleg started 
me on the errand . 
going forward and glancing over the weather bow , i perceived that the 
ship swinging to her anchor with the flood - tide , was now obliquely 
pointing towards the open ocean . the prospect was UNK , but 
exceedingly UNK and UNK ; not the slightest variety that i 
could see . 
" well , what ' s the report ? " said peleg when i came back ; " what did ye 
see ? " 
" not much , " i replied - " nothing but water ; considerable horizon though , 
and there ' s a squall coming up , i think . " 
" well , what does thou think then of seeing the world ? do ye wish to go 
round cape horn to see any more of it , eh ? can ' t ye see the world where 
you stand ? " 
i was a little UNK , but go a - whaling i must , and i would ; and the 
pequod was as good a ship as any - i thought the best - and all this i now 
repeated to peleg . seeing me so determined , he expressed his UNK 
to ship me . 
" and thou UNK as well sign the papers right off , " he added - " come 
along with ye . " and so saying , he led the way below deck into the cabin . 
seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and 
surprising figure . it turned out to be captain bildad , who along with 
captain peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel ; the other 
shares , as is sometimes the case in these ports , being held by a crowd 
of old UNK ; widows , UNK children , and UNK UNK ; each 
owning about the value of a timber head , or a foot of plank , or a nail 
or two in the ship . people in nantucket invest their money in whaling 
vessels , the same way that you do yours in UNK state stocks 
bringing in good interest . 
now , bildad , like peleg , and indeed many other nantucketers , was a 
quaker , the island having been originally settled by that UNK ; and to 
this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the 
peculiarities of the quaker , only variously and anomalously modified 
by things altogether alien and UNK . for some of these same 
quakers are the most UNK of all sailors and whale - hunters . they 
are fighting quakers ; they are quakers with a vengeance . 
so that there are instances among them of men , who , named with UNK 
names - a singularly common fashion on the island - and in UNK 
naturally UNK the stately dramatic thee and thou of the quaker 
UNK ; still , from the audacious , daring , and boundless adventure 
of their subsequent lives , strangely blend with these UNK 
peculiarities , a thousand bold dashes of character , not unworthy a 
scandinavian sea - king , or a poetical pagan roman . and when these things 
unite in a man of greatly superior natural force , with a globular brain 
and a ponderous heart ; who has also by the stillness and UNK 
of many long night - watches in the remotest waters , and beneath 
UNK never seen here at the north , been led to think 
UNK and UNK ; receiving all nature ' s sweet or 
savage impressions fresh from her own virgin UNK and UNK 
breast , and thereby chiefly , but with some help from UNK 
UNK , to learn a bold and nervous lofty language - that man makes 
one in a whole nation ' s census - a mighty UNK creature , formed for 
noble UNK . nor will it at all UNK from him , UNK 
regarded , if either by birth or other circumstances , he have what seems 
a half wilful UNK morbidness at the bottom of his nature . for all 
men UNK great are made so through a certain morbidness . be sure 
of this , o young ambition , all mortal UNK is but UNK . but , 
as yet we have not to do with such an one , but with quite another ; and 
still a man , who , if indeed peculiar , it only UNK again from another 
UNK of the quaker , modified by individual circumstances . 
like captain peleg , captain bildad was a well - to - do , retired whaleman . 
but unlike captain peleg - who cared not a rush for what are called 
serious things , and indeed deemed those self - same serious things the 
veriest of all UNK - captain bildad had not only been originally 
UNK according to the strictest UNK of nantucket UNK , but all 
his subsequent ocean life , and the sight of many UNK , lovely island 
creatures , round the horn - all that had not moved this native born 
quaker one single jot , had not so much as UNK one angle of his 
vest . still , for all this UNK , was there some lack of 
common UNK about worthy captain peleg . though UNK , from 
conscientious UNK , to bear arms against land UNK , yet himself 
had UNK UNK the atlantic and pacific ; and though a sworn foe 
to human UNK , yet had he in his straight - UNK coat , spilled tuns 
upon tuns of leviathan gore . how now in the contemplative evening of his 
days , the pious bildad reconciled these things in the reminiscence , i do 
not know ; but it did not seem to concern him much , and very probably 
he had long since come to the sage and sensible conclusion that a man ' s 
religion is one thing , and this practical world quite another . this 
world pays UNK . rising from a little cabin - boy in short clothes 
of the UNK drab , to a harpooneer in a broad shad - UNK waistcoat ; 
from that becoming boat - header , chief - mate , and captain , and finally a 
ship owner ; bildad , as i hinted before , had concluded his adventurous 
career by wholly retiring from active life at the UNK age of 
sixty , and UNK his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his 
well - earned income . 
now , bildad , i am sorry to say , had the reputation of being an 
UNK old hunks , and in his sea - going days , a bitter , hard 
task - master . they told me in nantucket , though it certainly seems a 
curious story , that when he sailed the old UNK whaleman , his crew , 
upon arriving home , were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital , sore 
exhausted and worn out . for a pious man , especially for a quaker , he was 
certainly rather hard - hearted , to say the least . he never used to swear , 
though , at his men , they said ; but somehow he got an inordinate 
quantity of cruel , UNK hard work out of them . when bildad was a 
chief - mate , to have his drab - coloured eye intently looking at you , made 
you feel completely nervous , till you could clutch something - a hammer 
or a marling - spike , and go to work like mad , at something or other , 
never mind what . UNK and idleness perished before him . his own 
person was the exact embodiment of his UNK character . on his 
long , gaunt body , he carried no spare flesh , no superfluous beard , 
his chin having a soft , economical nap to it , like the worn nap of his 
broad - brimmed hat . 
such , then , was the person that i saw seated on the transom when i 
followed captain peleg down into the cabin . the space between the decks 
was small ; and there , bolt - upright , sat old bildad , who always sat so , 
and never leaned , and this to save his coat tails . his broad - brim was 
placed beside him ; his legs were stiffly crossed ; his drab vesture was 
buttoned up to his chin ; and spectacles on nose , he seemed absorbed in 
reading from a ponderous volume . 
" bildad , " cried captain peleg , " at it again , bildad , eh ? ye have been 
studying those scriptures , now , for the last thirty years , to my certain 
knowledge . how far ye got , bildad ? " 
as if long UNK to such profane talk from his old shipmate , 
bildad , without UNK his present UNK , quietly looked up , and 
seeing me , glanced again UNK towards peleg . 
" he says he ' s our man , bildad , " said peleg , " he wants to ship . " 
" dost thee ? " said bildad , in a hollow tone , and turning round to me . 
" i dost , " said i unconsciously , he was so intense a quaker . 
" what do ye think of him , bildad ? " said peleg . 
" he ' ll do , " said bildad , eyeing me , and then went on UNK away at 
his book in a mumbling tone quite UNK . 
i thought him the queerest old quaker i ever saw , especially as peleg , 
his friend and old shipmate , seemed such a UNK . but i said 
nothing , only looking round me sharply . peleg now threw open a chest , 
and drawing forth the ship ' s articles , placed pen and UNK before him , 
and seated himself at a little table . i began to think it was high time 
to settle with myself at what terms i would be willing to UNK for the 
voyage . i was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no 
wages ; but all hands , including the captain , received certain shares of 
the profits called lays , and that these lays were UNK to the 
degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of the ship ' s 
company . i was also aware that being a green hand at whaling , my own 
lay would not be very large ; but considering that i was used to the sea , 
could steer a ship , splice a rope , and all that , i made no doubt that 
from all i had heard i should be offered at least the 275th lay - that 
is , the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage , whatever 
that might eventually amount to . and though the 275th lay was what they 
call a rather long lay , yet it was better than nothing ; and if we had a 
lucky voyage , might pretty nearly pay for the clothing i would wear out 
on it , not to speak of my three years ' beef and board , for which i would 
not have to pay one UNK . 
it might be thought that this was a poor way to UNK a princely 
UNK - and so it was , a very poor way indeed . but i am one of those 
that never take on about princely fortunes , and am quite content if the 
world is ready to board and lodge me , while i am putting up at this grim 
sign of the thunder cloud . upon the whole , i thought that the 275th lay 
would be about the fair thing , but would not have been surprised had i 
been offered the UNK , considering i was of a broad - shouldered make . 
but one thing , nevertheless , that made me a little distrustful about 
receiving a generous share of the profits was this : ashore , i had heard 
something of both captain peleg and his unaccountable old UNK bildad ; 
how that they being the principal proprietors of the pequod , therefore 
the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners , left nearly the 
whole management of the ship ' s affairs to these two . and i did not know 
but what the UNK old bildad might have a mighty deal to say about 
shipping hands , especially as i now found him on board the pequod , 
quite at home there in the cabin , and reading his bible as if at his 
own fireside . now while peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his 
jack - knife , old bildad , to my no small surprise , considering that he was 
such an interested party in these proceedings ; bildad never heeded 
us , but went on mumbling to himself out of his book , " lay not up for 
yourselves treasures upon earth , where moth - " 
" well , captain bildad , " interrupted peleg , " what d ' ye say , what lay 
shall we give this young man ? " 
" thou knowest best , " was the UNK reply , " the seven hundred and 
seventy - seventh wouldn ' t be too much , would it ? - ' where moth and rust do 
corrupt , but lay - ' " 
lay , indeed , thought i , and such a lay ! the seven hundred and 
seventy - seventh ! well , old bildad , you are determined that i , for one , 
shall not lay up many lays here below , where moth and rust do corrupt . 
it was an exceedingly long lay that , indeed ; and though from the 
magnitude of the figure it might at first UNK a landsman , yet 
the slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and 
seventy - seven is a pretty large number , yet , when you come to make 
a UNK of it , you will then see , i say , that the seven hundred and 
seventy - seventh part of a UNK is a good deal less than seven 
hundred and seventy - seven gold doubloons ; and so i thought at the time . 
" why , blast your eyes , bildad , " cried peleg , " thou dost not want to 
UNK this young man ! he must have more than that . " 
" seven hundred and seventy - seventh , " again said bildad , without lifting 
his eyes ; and then went on mumbling - " for where your treasure is , there 
will your heart be also . " 
" i am going to put him down for the three hundredth , " said peleg , " do ye 
hear that , bildad ! the three hundredth lay , i say . " 
bildad laid down his book , and turning solemnly towards him said , 
" captain peleg , thou hast a generous heart ; but thou must consider the 
duty thou UNK to the other owners of this ship - widows and orphans , 
many of them - and that if we too abundantly reward the UNK of this 
young man , we may be taking the bread from those widows and those 
orphans . the seven hundred and seventy - seventh lay , captain peleg . " 
" thou bildad ! " roared peleg , starting up and clattering about the 
cabin . " blast ye , captain bildad , if i had followed thy advice in these 
matters , i would afore now had a conscience to UNK about that would be 
heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round cape 
horn . " 
" captain peleg , " said bildad steadily , " thy conscience may be drawing 
ten inches of water , or ten fathoms , i can ' t tell ; but as thou art still 
an UNK man , captain peleg , i greatly fear lest thy conscience be 
but a leaky one ; and will in the end sink thee foundering down to the 
fiery pit , captain peleg . " 
" fiery pit ! fiery pit ! ye insult me , man ; past all natural bearing , ye 
insult me . it ' s an all - UNK UNK to tell any human creature that 
he ' s bound to hell . flukes and flames ! bildad , say that again to me , and 
start my soul - bolts , but i ' ll - i ' ll - yes , i ' ll swallow a live goat with 
all his hair and horns on . out of the cabin , ye UNK , drab - coloured 
son of a wooden gun - a straight wake with ye ! " 
as he UNK out this he made a rush at bildad , but with a marvellous 
oblique , sliding celerity , bildad for that time eluded him . 
alarmed at this terrible UNK between the two principal and 
UNK owners of the ship , and feeling half a mind to give up 
all idea of sailing in a vessel so UNK owned and temporarily 
commanded , i stepped aside from the door to give egress to bildad , who , 
i made no doubt , was all eagerness to UNK from before the awakened 
wrath of peleg . but to my astonishment , he sat down again on the 
transom very quietly , and seemed to have not the slightest intention of 
withdrawing . he seemed quite used to UNK peleg and his ways . as 
for peleg , after letting off his rage as he had , there seemed no more 
left in him , and he , too , sat down like a UNK , though he twitched a 
little as if still nervously agitated . " whew ! " he UNK at last - " the 
squall ' s gone off to leeward , i think . bildad , thou used to be good at 
UNK a lance , mend that pen , will ye . my jack - knife here needs 
the UNK . that ' s he ; thank ye , bildad . now then , my young man , 
ishmael ' s thy name , didn ' t ye say ? well then , down ye go here , ishmael , 
for the three hundredth lay . " 
" captain peleg , " said i , " i have a friend with me who wants to ship 
too - shall i bring him down to - morrow ? " 
" to be sure , " said peleg . " fetch him along , and we ' ll look at him . " 
" what lay does he want ? " groaned bildad , glancing up from the book in 
which he had again been UNK himself . 
" oh ! never thee mind about that , bildad , " said peleg . " has he ever 
UNK it any ? " turning to me . 
" killed more whales than i can count , captain peleg . " 
" well , bring him along then . " 
and , after signing the papers , off i went ; nothing doubting but that i 
had done a good morning ' s work , and that the pequod was the identical 
ship that yojo had provided to carry queequeg and me round the cape . 
but i had not proceeded far , when i began to bethink me that the captain 
with whom i was to sail yet remained unseen by me ; though , indeed , in 
many cases , a whale - ship will be completely fitted out , and receive all 
her crew on board , ere the captain makes himself visible by arriving 
to take command ; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged , and the 
shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief , that if the captain have 
a family , or any UNK concernment of that sort , he does not trouble 
himself much about his ship in port , but leaves her to the owners till 
all is ready for sea . however , it is always as well to have a look at 
him before irrevocably UNK yourself into his hands . turning back 
i accosted captain peleg , inquiring where captain ahab was to be found . 
" and what dost thou want of captain ahab ? it ' s all right enough ; thou 
art shipped . " 
" yes , but i should like to see him . " 
" but i don ' t think thou wilt be able to at present . i don ' t know exactly 
what ' s the matter with him ; but he keeps close inside the house ; a sort 
of sick , and yet he don ' t look so . in fact , he ain ' t sick ; but no , he 
UNK ' t well either . any how , young man , he won ' t always see me , so i 
don ' t suppose he will thee . he ' s a queer man , captain ahab - so some 
think - but a good one . oh , thou ' UNK like him well enough ; no fear , no 
fear . he ' s a grand , ungodly , god - like man , captain ahab ; doesn ' t speak 
much ; but , when he does speak , then you may well listen . mark ye , be 
UNK ; ahab ' s above the common ; ahab ' s been in UNK , as well as 
' mong the cannibals ; been used to deeper wonders than the waves ; fixed 
his fiery lance in UNK , stranger foes than whales . his lance ! 
aye , the UNK and the UNK that out of all our isle ! oh ! he ain ' t 
captain bildad ; no , and he ain ' t captain peleg ; he ' s ahab , boy ; and ahab 
of old , thou knowest , was a crowned king ! " 
" and a very vile one . when that wicked king was slain , the dogs , did 
they not lick his blood ? " 
" come hither to me - hither , hither , " said peleg , with a significance in 
his eye that almost startled me . " look ye , lad ; never say that on board 
the pequod . never say it anywhere . captain ahab did not name himself . 
' twas a foolish , ignorant whim of his crazy , UNK mother , who died 
when he was only a twelvemonth old . and yet the old UNK tistig , at 
UNK , said that the name would somehow prove UNK . and , perhaps , 
other fools like her may tell thee the same . i wish to warn thee . it ' s a 
lie . i know captain ahab well ; i ' ve sailed with him as mate years ago ; 
i know what he is - a good man - not a pious , good man , like bildad , but 
a swearing good man - something like me - only there ' s a good deal more of 
him . aye , aye , i know that he was never very jolly ; and i know that on 
the passage home , he was a little out of his mind for a spell ; but it 
was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that 
about , as any one might see . i know , too , that ever since he lost 
his leg last voyage by that accursed whale , he ' s been a kind of 
moody - desperate moody , and savage sometimes ; but that will all pass 
off . and once for all , let me tell thee and assure thee , young man , it ' s 
better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one . so 
good - bye to thee - and wrong not captain ahab , because he happens to 
have a wicked name . besides , my boy , he has a wife - not three voyages 
wedded - a sweet , UNK girl . think of that ; by that sweet girl that 
old man has a child : hold ye then there can be any utter , hopeless 
harm in ahab ? no , no , my lad ; stricken , blasted , if he be , ahab has his 
UNK ! " 
as i walked away , i was full of UNK ; what had been 
incidentally revealed to me of captain ahab , filled me with a certain 
wild UNK of UNK concerning him . and somehow , at the time , 
i felt a UNK and a sorrow for him , but for i don ' t know what , 
unless it was the cruel loss of his leg . and yet i also felt a strange 
awe of him ; but that sort of awe , which i cannot at all describe , was 
not exactly awe ; i do not know what it was . but i felt it ; and it did 
not UNK me towards him ; though i felt impatience at what seemed 
like mystery in him , so UNK as he was known to me then . however , 
my thoughts were at length carried in other directions , so that for the 
present dark ahab slipped my mind . 
chapter UNK . the ramadan . 
as queequeg ' s ramadan , or fasting and UNK , was to continue all 
day , i did not choose to UNK him till towards night - fall ; for i 
cherish the greatest respect towards everybody ' s UNK UNK , 
never mind how comical , and could not find it in my heart to UNK 
even a congregation of UNK worshipping a UNK - stool ; or those other 
creatures in certain parts of our earth , who with a degree of UNK 
quite unprecedented in other planets , bow down before the UNK of 
a UNK landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate 
UNK yet owned and UNK in his name . 
i say , we good presbyterian christians should be charitable in these 
things , and not fancy ourselves so UNK superior to other mortals , 
pagans and what not , because of their half - crazy conceits on these 
subjects . there was queequeg , now , certainly UNK the most 
absurd notions about yojo and his ramadan ; - but what of that ? queequeg 
thought he knew what he was about , i suppose ; he seemed to be content ; 
and there let him rest . all our UNK with him would not UNK ; let 
him be , i say : and heaven have mercy on us all - UNK and pagans 
alike - for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head , and 
sadly need mending . 
towards evening , when i felt assured that all his performances and 
UNK must be over , i went up to his room and knocked at the door ; but 
no answer . i tried to open it , but it was fastened inside . " queequeg , " 
said i softly through the key - hole : - all silent . " i say , queequeg ! why 
don ' t you speak ? it ' s i - ishmael . " but all remained still as before . i 
began to grow alarmed . i had allowed him such abundant time ; i thought 
he might have had an UNK fit . i looked through the key - hole ; but 
the door opening into an odd corner of the room , the key - hole prospect 
was but a crooked and sinister one . i could only see part of the 
foot - board of the bed and a line of the wall , but nothing more . i 
was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden shaft of 
queequeg ' s harpoon , which the landlady the evening previous had taken 
from him , before our UNK to the chamber . that ' s strange , thought i ; 
but at any rate , since the harpoon stands yonder , and he seldom or 
never goes abroad without it , therefore he must be inside here , and no 
possible mistake . 
" queequeg ! - queequeg ! " - all still . something must have happened . 
apoplexy ! i tried to burst open the door ; but it stubbornly UNK . 
running down stairs , i quickly stated my suspicions to the first person 
i met - the chamber - maid . " la ! la ! " she cried , " i thought something must 
be the matter . i went to make the bed after breakfast , and the door was 
locked ; and not a mouse to be heard ; and it ' s been just so silent ever 
since . but i thought , may be , you had both gone off and locked your 
baggage in for safe keeping . la ! la , ma ' am ! - UNK ! murder ! mrs . 
hussey ! apoplexy ! " - and with these cries , she ran towards the kitchen , i 
following . 
mrs . hussey soon appeared , with a UNK - pot in one hand and a 
vinegar - cruet in the other , having just broken away from the occupation 
of attending to the UNK , and scolding her little black boy meantime . 
" wood - house ! " cried i , " which way to it ? run for god ' s sake , and fetch 
something to pry open the door - the axe ! - the axe ! he ' s had a stroke ; 
depend upon it ! " - and so saying i was UNK rushing up stairs 
again empty - handed , when mrs . hussey interposed the UNK - pot and 
vinegar - cruet , and the entire castor of her countenance . 
" what ' s the matter with you , young man ? " 
" get the axe ! for god ' s sake , run for the UNK , some one , while i pry 
it open ! " 
" look here , " said the landlady , quickly putting down the vinegar - cruet , 
so as to have one hand free ; " look here ; are you talking about prying 
open any of my doors ? " - and with that she seized my arm . " what ' s the 
matter with you ? what ' s the matter with you , shipmate ? " 
in as calm , but rapid a manner as possible , i gave her to understand the 
whole case . unconsciously clapping the vinegar - cruet to one side of her 
nose , she ruminated for an instant ; then exclaimed - " no ! i haven ' t seen 
it since i put it there . " running to a little closet under the UNK 
of the stairs , she glanced in , and returning , told me that queequeg ' s 
harpoon was missing . " he ' s killed himself , " she cried . " it ' s UNK ' UNK 
stiggs done over again - there goes another counterpane - god pity his poor 
mother ! - it will be the ruin of my house . has the poor lad a sister ? 
where ' s that girl ? - there , UNK , go to UNK the painter , and tell 
him to paint me a sign , with - " no UNK permitted here , and no 
smoking in the parlor ; " - might as well kill both birds at once . kill ? 
the lord be UNK to his ghost ! what ' s that noise there ? you , young 
man , avast there ! " 
and running up after me , she caught me as i was again trying to force 
open the door . 
" i don ' t allow it ; i won ' t have my premises spoiled . go for the 
UNK , there ' s one about a mile from here . but avast ! " putting her 
hand in her side - pocket , " here ' s a key that ' ll fit , i guess ; let ' s 
see . " and with that , she turned it in the lock ; but , alas ! queequeg ' s 
supplemental bolt remained UNK within . 
" have to burst it open , " said i , and was running down the entry a 
little , for a good start , when the landlady caught at me , again UNK 
i should not break down her premises ; but i tore from her , and with a 
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark . 
with a prodigious noise the door flew open , and the UNK UNK 
against the wall , sent the plaster to the ceiling ; and there , good 
heavens ! there sat queequeg , altogether cool and self - collected ; right 
in the middle of the room ; UNK on his hams , and holding yojo on 
top of his head . he looked neither one way nor the other way , but sat 
like a carved image with scarce a sign of active life . 
" queequeg , " said i , going up to him , " queequeg , what ' s the matter with 
you ? " 
" he UNK ' t been a UNK ' so all day , has he ? " said the landlady . 
but all we said , not a word could we drag out of him ; i almost felt 
like pushing him over , so as to change his position , for it was almost 
intolerable , it seemed so UNK and UNK constrained ; 
especially , as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards of 
eight or ten hours , going too without his regular meals . 
" mrs . hussey , " said i , " he ' s alive at all events ; so leave us , if you 
please , and i will see to this strange affair myself . " 
UNK the door upon the landlady , i endeavored to prevail upon 
queequeg to take a chair ; but in vain . there he sat ; and all he could 
do - for all my polite arts and UNK - he would not move a peg , 
nor say a single word , nor even look at me , nor notice my presence in 
the slightest way . 
i wonder , thought i , if this can possibly be a part of his ramadan ; do 
they fast on their hams that way in his native island . it must be so ; 
yes , it ' s part of his UNK , i suppose ; well , then , let him rest ; he ' ll 
get up sooner or later , no doubt . it can ' t last for ever , thank god , 
and his ramadan only comes once a year ; and i don ' t believe it ' s very 
UNK then . 
i went down to supper . after sitting a long time listening to the long 
stories of some sailors who had just come from a plum - pudding voyage , as 
they called it ( that is , a short whaling - voyage in a schooner or brig , 
confined to the north of the line , in the atlantic ocean only ) ; after 
listening to these plum - UNK till nearly UNK o ' clock , i went 
up stairs to go to bed , feeling quite sure by this time queequeg must 
certainly have brought his ramadan to a UNK . but no ; there he 
was just where i had left him ; he had not stirred an inch . i began to 
grow vexed with him ; it seemed so downright UNK and insane to be 
sitting there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room , 
holding a piece of wood on his head . 
" for heaven ' s sake , queequeg , get up and shake yourself ; get up and have 
some supper . you ' ll UNK ; you ' ll kill yourself , queequeg . " but not a 
word did he reply . 
despairing of him , therefore , i determined to go to bed and to sleep ; 
and no doubt , before a great while , he would follow me . but previous to 
turning in , i took my heavy bearskin jacket , and threw it over him , as 
it UNK to be a very cold night ; and he had nothing but his ordinary 
round jacket on . for some time , do all i would , i could not get into 
the UNK doze . i had blown out the candle ; and the mere thought 
of queequeg - not four feet off - sitting there in that uneasy position , 
stark alone in the cold and dark ; this made me really wretched . think of 
it ; sleeping all night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his 
hams in this dreary , unaccountable ramadan ! 
but somehow i dropped off at last , and knew nothing more till break of 
day ; when , looking over the UNK , there UNK queequeg , as if he 
had been screwed down to the floor . but as soon as the first glimpse of 
sun entered the window , up he got , with stiff and grating joints , 
but with a cheerful look ; limped towards me where i lay ; pressed his 
forehead again against mine ; and said his ramadan was over . 
now , as i before hinted , i have no UNK to any person ' s religion , 
be it what it may , so long as that person does not kill or insult any 
other person , because that other person don ' t believe it also . but when 
a man ' s religion becomes really frantic ; when it is a positive UNK 
to him ; and , in fine , makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to 
lodge in ; then i think it high time to take that individual aside and 
argue the point with him . 
and just so i now did with queequeg . " queequeg , " said i , " get into bed 
now , and lie and listen to me . " i then went on , beginning with the rise 
and progress of the primitive religions , and coming down to the various 
religions of the present time , during which time i UNK to show 
queequeg that all these UNK , ramadans , and prolonged UNK - UNK in 
cold , cheerless rooms were stark nonsense ; bad for the health ; useless 
for the soul ; UNK , in short , to the obvious laws of UNK and 
common sense . i told him , too , that he being in other things such an 
extremely sensible and sagacious savage , it UNK me , very badly UNK 
me , to see him now so UNK foolish about this ridiculous ramadan 
of his . besides , argued i , fasting makes the body cave in ; hence the 
spirit UNK in ; and all thoughts born of a fast must necessarily be 
half - UNK . this is the reason why most dyspeptic UNK cherish 
such melancholy notions about their UNK . in one word , queequeg , 
said i , rather UNK ; hell is an idea first born on an UNK 
apple - UNK ; and since then UNK through the hereditary 
UNK nurtured by ramadans . 
i then asked queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with 
dyspepsia ; UNK the idea very plainly , so that he could take it 
in . he said no ; only upon one UNK occasion . it was after a great 
feast given by his father the king , on the gaining of a great battle 
wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o ' clock in the 
afternoon , and all cooked and eaten that very evening . 
" no more , queequeg , " said i , shuddering ; " that will do ; " for i knew the 
UNK without his further hinting them . i had seen a sailor who had 
visited that very island , and he told me that it was the custom , when 
a great battle had been gained there , to UNK all the slain in the 
yard or garden of the victor ; and then , one by one , they were placed 
in great wooden UNK , and garnished round like a UNK , with 
UNK and UNK ; and with some UNK in their mouths , were 
sent round with the victor ' s compliments to all his friends , just as 
though these presents were so many christmas UNK . 
after all , i do not think that my remarks about religion made much 
impression upon queequeg . because , in the first place , he somehow seemed 
dull of hearing on that important subject , unless considered from his 
own point of view ; and , in the second place , he did not more than one 
third understand me , UNK my ideas simply as i would ; and , finally , he 
no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than 
i did . he looked at me with a sort of UNK concern and 
UNK , as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible 
young man should be so hopelessly lost to UNK pagan piety . 
at last we rose and dressed ; and queequeg , taking a UNK hearty 
breakfast of chowders of all sorts , so that the landlady should not 
make much profit by reason of his ramadan , we sallied out to board the 
pequod , sauntering along , and picking our teeth with UNK bones . 
chapter UNK . his mark . 
as we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship , queequeg 
carrying his harpoon , captain peleg in his UNK voice loudly hailed us 
from his wigwam , saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal , 
and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board that craft , 
unless they previously produced their papers . 
" what do you mean by that , captain peleg ? " said i , now jumping on the 
bulwarks , and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf . 
" i mean , " he replied , " he must show his papers . " 
" yes , " said captain bildad in his hollow voice , sticking his head from 
behind peleg ' s , out of the wigwam . " he must show that he ' s converted . 
son of darkness , " he added , turning to queequeg , " art thou at present in 
UNK with any christian church ? " 
" why , " said i , " he ' s a member of the first congregational church . " here 
be it said , that many tattooed savages sailing in nantucket ships at 
last come to be converted into the churches . 
" first congregational church , " cried bildad , " what ! that worships in 
deacon deuteronomy coleman ' s meeting - house ? " and so saying , taking 
out his spectacles , he rubbed them with his great yellow UNK 
handkerchief , and putting them on very carefully , came out of the 
wigwam , and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks , took a good long look at 
queequeg . 
" how long hath he been a member ? " he then said , turning to me ; " not very 
long , i rather guess , young man . " 
" no , " said peleg , " and he hasn ' t been baptized right either , or it would 
have washed some of that devil ' s blue off his face . " 
" do tell , now , " cried bildad , " is this UNK a regular member of 
deacon deuteronomy ' s meeting ? i never saw him going there , and i pass it 
every lord ' s day . " 
" i don ' t know anything about deacon deuteronomy or his meeting , " said 
i ; " all i know is , that queequeg here is a born member of the first 
congregational church . he is a deacon himself , queequeg is . " 
" young man , " said bildad UNK , " thou art skylarking with me - explain 
thyself , thou young UNK . what church dost thee mean ? answer me . " 
finding myself thus hard pushed , i replied . " i mean , sir , the same 
ancient catholic church to which you and i , and captain peleg there , 
and queequeg here , and all of us , and every mother ' s son and soul of 
us belong ; the great and everlasting first congregation of this whole 
worshipping world ; we all belong to that ; only some of us cherish some 
queer UNK no ways touching the grand belief ; in that we all join 
hands . " 
" splice , thou mean ' st splice hands , " cried peleg , drawing nearer . " young 
man , you ' d better ship for a missionary , instead of a fore - mast hand ; 
i never heard a better sermon . deacon deuteronomy - why father mapple 
himself couldn ' t beat it , and he ' s UNK something . come aboard , come 
aboard ; never mind about the papers . i say , tell quohog there - what ' s 
that you call him ? tell quohog to step along . by the great anchor , what 
a harpoon he ' s got there ! looks like good stuff that ; and he handles it 
about right . i say , quohog , or whatever your name is , did you ever stand 
in the head of a whale - boat ? did you ever strike a fish ? " 
without saying a word , queequeg , in his wild sort of way , jumped upon 
the bulwarks , from thence into the bows of one of the whale - boats 
hanging to the side ; and then bracing his left knee , and poising his 
harpoon , cried out in some such way as this : - 
" cap ' ain , you see him small drop tar on water UNK ? you see him ? well , 
spose him one whale eye , well , den ! " and taking sharp aim at it , he 
darted the iron right over old bildad ' s broad brim , clean across the 
ship ' s decks , and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight . 
" now , " said queequeg , quietly hauling in the line , " UNK - ee him whale - e 
eye ; why , UNK whale dead . " 
" quick , bildad , " said peleg , his partner , who , aghast at the close 
vicinity of the flying harpoon , had retreated towards the cabin gangway . 
" quick , i say , you bildad , and get the ship ' s papers . we must have 
UNK there , i mean quohog , in one of our boats . look ye , quohog , 
we ' ll give ye the ninetieth lay , and that ' s more than ever was given a 
harpooneer yet out of nantucket . " 
so down we went into the cabin , and to my great joy queequeg was soon 
enrolled among the same ship ' s company to which i myself belonged . 
when all preliminaries were over and peleg had got everything ready for 
signing , he turned to me and said , " i guess , quohog there don ' t know how 
to write , does he ? i say , quohog , blast ye ! dost thou sign thy name or 
make thy mark ? " 
but at this question , queequeg , who had twice or thrice before taken 
part in similar UNK , looked no ways UNK ; but taking the 
offered pen , copied upon the paper , in the proper place , an exact 
counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm ; so 
that through captain peleg ' s obstinate mistake touching his appellative , 
it stood something like this : - 
quohog . his UNK mark . 
meanwhile captain bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing queequeg , 
and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his 
broad - UNK drab coat , took out a bundle of UNK , and selecting 
one entitled " the latter day coming ; or no time to lose , " placed it in 
queequeg ' s hands , and then grasping them and the book with both his , 
looked earnestly into his eyes , and said , " son of darkness , i must do my 
duty by thee ; i am part owner of this ship , and feel concerned for the 
souls of all its crew ; if thou still UNK to thy pagan ways , which i 
sadly fear , i UNK thee , remain not for aye a UNK UNK . UNK 
the idol bell , and the hideous dragon ; turn from the wrath to come ; mind 
thine eye , i say ; oh ! goodness gracious ! steer clear of the fiery pit ! " 
something of the salt sea yet lingered in old bildad ' s language , 
UNK mixed with UNK and domestic UNK . 
" avast there , avast there , bildad , avast now UNK our harpooneer , " 
cried peleg . " pious harpooneers never make good UNK - it takes the shark 
out of ' em ; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish . 
there was young UNK UNK , once the bravest boat - header out of all 
nantucket and the vineyard ; he joined the meeting , and never came to 
good . he got so frightened about his plaguy soul , that he UNK and 
UNK away from whales , for fear of after - claps , in case he got stove 
and went to davy jones . " 
" peleg ! peleg ! " said bildad , lifting his eyes and hands , " thou thyself , 
as i myself , hast seen many a perilous time ; thou knowest , peleg , what 
it is to have the fear of death ; how , then , can ' st thou UNK in this 
ungodly guise . thou UNK thine own heart , peleg . tell me , when this 
same pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on japan , 
that same voyage when thou went mate with captain ahab , did ' st thou not 
think of death and the judgment then ? " 
" hear him , hear him now , " cried peleg , marching across the cabin , and 
thrusting his hands far down into his pockets , - " hear him , all of ye . 
think of that ! when every moment we thought the ship would sink ! 
death and the judgment then ? what ? with all three masts making such an 
everlasting UNK against the side ; and every sea breaking over us , 
fore and aft . think of death and the judgment then ? no ! no time to think 
about death then . life was what captain ahab and i was thinking of ; 
and how to save all hands - how to rig UNK - masts - how to get into the 
nearest port ; that was what i was thinking of . " 
bildad said no more , but buttoning up his coat , stalked on deck , 
where we followed him . there he stood , very quietly overlooking some 
UNK who were mending a top - sail in the waist . now and then 
he stooped to pick up a UNK , or save an end of tarred twine , which 
otherwise might have been wasted . 
chapter UNK . the prophet . 
" shipmates , have ye shipped in that ship ? " 
queequeg and i had just left the pequod , and were sauntering away from 
the water , for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts , when 
the above words were put to us by a stranger , who , pausing before us , 
levelled his massive UNK at the vessel in question . he was but 
UNK UNK in faded jacket and patched trowsers ; a rag of a 
black handkerchief UNK his neck . a UNK small - UNK had in all 
directions flowed over his face , and left it like the complicated ribbed 
bed of a torrent , when the rushing waters have been dried up . 
" have ye shipped in her ? " he repeated . 
" you mean the ship pequod , i suppose , " said i , trying to gain a little 
more time for an UNK look at him . 
" aye , the pequod - that ship there , " he said , drawing back his whole 
arm , and then rapidly UNK it straight out from him , with the fixed 
bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object . 
" yes , " said i , " we have just signed the articles . " 
" anything down there about your souls ? " 
" about what ? " 
" oh , perhaps you hav ' n ' t got any , " he said quickly . " no matter though , 
i know many chaps that hav ' n ' t got any , - good luck to ' em ; and they are 
all the better off for it . a soul ' s a sort of a fifth wheel to a UNK . " 
" what are you jabbering about , shipmate ? " said i . 
" he ' s got enough , though , to make up for all UNK of that sort 
in other chaps , " abruptly said the stranger , placing a nervous emphasis 
upon the word he . 
" queequeg , " said i , " let ' s go ; this fellow has broken loose from 
somewhere ; he ' s talking about something and somebody we don ' t know . " 
" stop ! " cried the stranger . " ye said true - ye hav ' n ' t seen old thunder 
yet , have ye ? " 
" who ' s old thunder ? " said i , again riveted with the insane earnestness 
of his manner . 
" captain ahab . " 
" what ! the captain of our ship , the pequod ? " 
" aye , among some of us old sailor chaps , he goes by that name . ye 
hav ' n ' t seen him yet , have ye ? " 
" no , we hav ' n ' t . he ' s sick they say , but is getting better , and will be 
all right again before long . " 
" all right again before long ! " laughed the stranger , with a solemnly 
UNK sort of laugh . " look ye ; when captain ahab is all right , then 
this left arm of mine will be all right ; not before . " 
" what do you know about him ? " 
" what did they tell you about him ? say that ! " 
" they didn ' t tell much of anything about him ; only i ' ve heard that he ' s 
a good whale - hunter , and a good captain to his crew . " 
" that ' s true , that ' s true - yes , both true enough . but you must jump when 
he gives an order . step and growl ; growl and go - that ' s the word with 
captain ahab . but nothing about that thing that happened to him off cape 
horn , long ago , when he lay like dead for three days and nights ; 
nothing about that deadly UNK with the spaniard afore the altar in 
santa ? - heard nothing about that , eh ? nothing about the silver calabash 
he spat into ? and nothing about his losing his leg last voyage , 
according to the prophecy . didn ' t ye hear a word about them matters and 
something more , eh ? no , i don ' t think ye did ; how could ye ? who knows 
it ? not all nantucket , i guess . but UNK ' ever , mayhap , ye ' ve heard tell 
about the leg , and how he lost it ; aye , ye have heard of that , i dare 
say . oh yes , that every one knows a ' most - i mean they know he ' s only one 
leg ; and that a UNK took the other off . " 
" my friend , " said i , " what all this UNK of yours is about , i 
don ' t know , and i don ' t much care ; for it seems to me that you must be a 
little UNK in the head . but if you are speaking of captain ahab , of 
that ship there , the pequod , then let me tell you , that i know all about 
the loss of his leg . " 
" all about it , eh - sure you do ? - all ? " 
" pretty sure . " 
with finger pointed and eye levelled at the pequod , the UNK - like 
stranger stood a moment , as if in a troubled reverie ; then starting a 
little , turned and said : - " ye ' ve shipped , have ye ? names down on the 
papers ? well , well , what ' s signed , is signed ; and what ' s to be , will be ; 
and then again , perhaps it won ' t be , after all . anyhow , it ' s all fixed 
and UNK a ' ready ; and some sailors or other must go with him , i 
suppose ; as well these as any other men , god pity ' em ! morning to ye , 
shipmates , morning ; the ineffable heavens bless ye ; i ' m sorry i stopped 
ye . " 
" look here , friend , " said i , " if you have anything important to tell 
us , out with it ; but if you are only trying to UNK us , you are 
mistaken in your game ; that ' s all i have to say . " 
" and it ' s said very well , and i like to hear a chap talk up that way ; 
you are just the man for him - the likes of ye . morning to ye , shipmates , 
morning ! oh ! when ye get there , tell ' em i ' ve concluded not to make one 
of ' em . " 
" ah , my dear fellow , you can ' t fool us that way - you can ' t fool us . it 
is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great 
secret in him . " 
" morning to ye , shipmates , morning . " 
" morning it is , " said i . " come along , queequeg , let ' s leave this crazy 
man . but stop , tell me your name , will you ? " 
" elijah . " 
elijah ! thought i , and we walked away , both UNK , after each 
other ' s fashion , upon this ragged old sailor ; and UNK that he was 
nothing but a humbug , trying to be a UNK . but we had not gone 
perhaps above a hundred yards , when chancing to turn a corner , and 
looking back as i did so , who should be seen but elijah following us , 
though at a distance . somehow , the sight of him struck me so , that i 
said nothing to queequeg of his being behind , but passed on with my 
comrade , anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner 
that we did . he did ; and then it seemed to me that he was UNK 
us , but with what intent i could not for the life of me imagine . this 
circumstance , coupled with his ambiguous , half - hinting , half - revealing , 
shrouded sort of talk , now begat in me all kinds of vague UNK 
and half - apprehensions , and all connected with the pequod ; and captain 
ahab ; and the leg he had lost ; and the cape horn fit ; and the silver 
calabash ; and what captain peleg had said of him , when i left the ship 
the day previous ; and the UNK of the UNK tistig ; and the voyage 
we had bound ourselves to sail ; and a hundred other UNK things . 
i was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged elijah was really 
UNK us or not , and with that intent crossed the way with queequeg , 
and on that side of it UNK our steps . but elijah passed on , without 
seeming to notice us . this relieved me ; and once more , and finally as it 
seemed to me , i pronounced him in my heart , a humbug . 
chapter 20 . all astir . 
a day or two passed , and there was great activity aboard the pequod . 
not only were the old sails being UNK , but new sails were coming on 
board , and bolts of canvas , and coils of rigging ; in short , everything 
betokened that the ship ' s UNK were hurrying to a close . captain 
peleg seldom or never went ashore , but sat in his wigwam keeping a sharp 
look - out upon the hands : bildad did all the UNK and providing 
at the stores ; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging were 
working till long after night - fall . 
on the day following queequeg ' s signing the articles , word was given at 
all the inns where the ship ' s company were stopping , that their chests 
must be on board before night , for there was no telling how soon 
the vessel might be sailing . so queequeg and i got down our UNK , 
UNK , however , to sleep ashore till the last . but it seems they 
always give very long notice in these cases , and the ship did not sail 
for several days . but no wonder ; there was a good deal to be done , and 
there is no telling how many things to be thought of , before the pequod 
was fully UNK . 
every one knows what a multitude of things - beds , UNK - pans , knives 
and forks , UNK and tongs , napkins , nut - UNK , and what not , are 
indispensable to the business of UNK . just so with whaling , 
which necessitates a three - years ' UNK upon the wide ocean , 
far from all UNK , UNK , doctors , UNK , and UNK . and 
though this also holds true of merchant vessels , yet not by any means 
to the same extent as with whalemen . for besides the great length of the 
whaling voyage , the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the 
fishery , and the UNK of replacing them at the remote harbors 
usually frequented , it must be remembered , that of all ships , whaling 
vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds , and especially 
to the destruction and loss of the very things upon which the success of 
the voyage most depends . hence , the spare boats , spare spars , and spare 
lines and harpoons , and spare UNK , almost , but a spare captain 
and duplicate ship . 
at the period of our arrival at the island , the heaviest UNK of the 
pequod had been almost completed ; comprising her beef , bread , water , 
fuel , and iron hoops and staves . but , as before hinted , for some time 
there was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and 
ends of things , both large and small . 
chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was captain 
bildad ' s sister , a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable 
spirit , but withal very UNK , who seemed resolved that , if she 
could help it , nothing should be found wanting in the pequod , after once 
fairly getting to sea . at one time she would come on board with a jar 
of UNK for the steward ' s pantry ; another time with a bunch of quills 
for the chief mate ' s desk , where he kept his log ; a third time with a 
roll of UNK for the small of some one ' s rheumatic back . never did 
any woman better UNK her name , which was charity - aunt charity , as 
everybody called her . and like a sister of charity did this charitable 
aunt charity UNK about hither and thither , ready to turn her hand 
and heart to anything that UNK to yield safety , comfort , and 
UNK to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother 
bildad was concerned , and in which she herself owned a score or two of 
well - saved dollars . 
but it was startling to see this excellent hearted quakeress coming on 
board , as she did the last day , with a long oil - UNK in one hand , and 
a still longer whaling lance in the other . nor was bildad himself nor 
captain peleg at all backward . as for bildad , he carried about with him 
a long list of the articles needed , and at every fresh arrival , down 
went his mark opposite that article upon the paper . every once in a 
while peleg came UNK out of his whalebone den , roaring at the men 
down the hatchways , roaring up to the riggers at the mast - head , and then 
concluded by roaring back into his wigwam . 
during these days of preparation , queequeg and i often visited the 
craft , and as often i asked about captain ahab , and how he was , and when 
he was going to come on board his ship . to these questions they would 
answer , that he was getting better and better , and was expected aboard 
every day ; meantime , the two captains , peleg and bildad , could attend 
to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage . if i had been 
downright honest with myself , i would have seen very plainly in my heart 
that i did but half fancy being UNK this way to so long a voyage , 
without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute 
dictator of it , so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea . 
but when a man suspects any wrong , it sometimes happens that if he be 
already involved in the matter , he UNK strives to cover up his 
suspicions even from himself . and much this way it was with me . i said 
nothing , and tried to think nothing . 
at last it was given out that some time next day the ship would 
certainly sail . so next morning , queequeg and i took a very early start . 
chapter UNK . going aboard . 
it was nearly six o ' clock , but only grey imperfect misty dawn , when we 
drew nigh the wharf . 
" there are some sailors running ahead there , if i see right , " said i to 
queequeg , " it can ' t be shadows ; she ' s off by sunrise , i guess ; come on ! " 
" avast ! " cried a voice , whose owner at the same time coming close behind 
us , laid a hand upon both our shoulders , and then UNK himself 
between us , stood stooping forward a little , in the uncertain twilight , 
strangely peering from queequeg to me . it was elijah . 
" going aboard ? " 
" hands off , will you , " said i . 
" UNK here , " said queequeg , shaking himself , " go ' way ! " 
" ain ' t going aboard , then ? " 
" yes , we are , " said i , " but what business is that of yours ? do you know , 
mr . elijah , that i consider you a little impertinent ? " 
" no , no , no ; i wasn ' t aware of that , " said elijah , slowly and 
UNK looking from me to queequeg , with the most unaccountable 
glances . 
" elijah , " said i , " you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing . we 
are going to the indian and pacific oceans , and would prefer not to be 
UNK . " 
" ye be , be ye ? coming back afore breakfast ? " 
" he ' s cracked , queequeg , " said i , " come on . " 
" holloa ! " cried stationary elijah , hailing us when we had removed a few 
paces . 
" never mind him , " said i , " queequeg , come on . " 
but he stole up to us again , and suddenly clapping his hand on my 
shoulder , said - " did ye see anything looking like men going towards that 
ship a while ago ? " 
struck by this plain matter - of - fact question , i answered , saying , " yes , 
i thought i did see four or five men ; but it was too dim to be sure . " 
" very dim , very dim , " said elijah . " morning to ye . " 
once more we quitted him ; but once more he came softly after us ; and 
touching my shoulder again , said , " see if you can find ' em now , will ye ? 
" find who ? " 
" morning to ye ! morning to ye ! " he rejoined , again moving off . " oh ! i 
was going to warn ye against - but never mind , never mind - it ' s all one , 
all in the family too ; - sharp frost this morning , ain ' t it ? good - bye to 
ye . shan ' t see ye again very soon , i guess ; unless it ' s before the grand 
UNK . " and with these cracked words he finally departed , leaving me , for 
the moment , in no small wonderment at his frantic UNK . 
at last , stepping on board the pequod , we found everything in profound 
quiet , not a soul moving . the cabin entrance was locked within ; the 
hatches were all on , and UNK with coils of rigging . going forward 
to the forecastle , we found the slide of the scuttle open . seeing a 
light , we went down , and found only an old rigger there , wrapped in a 
UNK pea - jacket . he was thrown at whole length upon two chests , his 
face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms . the profoundest slumber 
slept upon him . 
" those sailors we saw , queequeg , where can they have gone to ? " said i , 
looking UNK at the sleeper . but it seemed that , when on the wharf , 
queequeg had not at all noticed what i now alluded to ; hence i would 
have thought myself to have been UNK UNK in that matter , 
were it not for elijah ' s otherwise inexplicable question . but i beat the 
thing down ; and again marking the sleeper , UNK hinted to queequeg 
that perhaps we had best sit up with the body ; telling him to establish 
himself accordingly . he put his hand upon the sleeper ' s rear , as though 
feeling if it was soft enough ; and then , without more ado , sat quietly 
down there . 
" gracious ! queequeg , don ' t sit there , " said i . 
" oh ! perry UNK seat , " said queequeg , " my country way ; won ' t UNK him 
face . " 
" face ! " said i , " call that his face ? very benevolent countenance then ; 
but how hard he breathes , he ' s heaving himself ; get off , queequeg , you 
are heavy , it ' s UNK the face of the poor . get off , queequeg ! look , 
he ' ll twitch you off soon . i wonder he don ' t wake . " 
queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper , and 
lighted his tomahawk pipe . i sat at the feet . we kept the pipe passing 
over the sleeper , from one to the other . meanwhile , upon questioning him 
in his broken fashion , queequeg gave me to understand that , in his 
land , owing to the absence of UNK and sofas of all sorts , the king , 
UNK , and great people generally , were in the custom of UNK some 
of the lower orders for UNK ; and to furnish a house comfortably in 
that respect , you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy fellows , and lay 
them round in the UNK and UNK . besides , it was very convenient on 
an UNK ; much better than those garden - chairs which are UNK 
into walking - sticks ; upon occasion , a chief calling his UNK , and 
UNK him to make a UNK of himself under a spreading tree , perhaps 
in some damp UNK place . 
while narrating these things , every time queequeg received the tomahawk 
from me , he flourished the hatchet - side of it over the sleeper ' s head . 
" what ' s that for , queequeg ? " 
" perry easy , kill - e ; oh ! perry easy ! " 
he was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk - pipe , 
which , it seemed , had in its two uses both UNK his foes and soothed 
his soul , when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger . the 
strong vapour now completely filling the contracted hole , it began 
to tell upon him . he breathed with a sort of UNK ; then seemed 
troubled in the nose ; then revolved over once or twice ; then sat up and 
rubbed his eyes . 
" holloa ! " he breathed at last , " who be ye UNK ? " 
" shipped men , " answered i , " when does she sail ? " 
" aye , aye , ye are going in her , be ye ? she sails to - day . the captain 
came aboard last night . " 
" what captain ? - ahab ? " 
" who but him indeed ? " 
i was going to ask him some further questions concerning ahab , when we 
heard a noise on deck . 
" holloa ! starbuck ' s astir , " said the rigger . " he ' s a lively chief mate , 
that ; good man , and a pious ; but all alive now , i must turn to . " and so 
saying he went on deck , and we followed . 
it was now clear sunrise . soon the crew came on board in twos and 
threes ; the riggers bestirred themselves ; the mates were actively 
engaged ; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various 
last things on board . meanwhile captain ahab remained invisibly 
UNK within his cabin . 
chapter UNK . merry christmas . 
at length , towards noon , upon the final UNK of the ship ' s riggers , 
and after the pequod had been hauled out from the wharf , and after the 
ever - UNK charity had come off in a whale - boat , with her last 
gift - a night - cap for stubb , the second mate , her brother - in - law , and a 
spare bible for the steward - after all this , the two captains , peleg 
and bildad , issued from the cabin , and turning to the chief mate , peleg 
said : 
" now , mr . starbuck , are you sure everything is right ? captain ahab is 
all ready - just spoke to him - nothing more to be got from shore , eh ? 
well , call all hands , then . UNK ' em aft here - blast ' em ! " 
" no need of profane words , however great the hurry , peleg , " said bildad , 
" but away with thee , friend starbuck , and do our bidding . " 
how now ! here upon the very point of starting for the voyage , captain 
peleg and captain bildad were going it with a high hand on the 
quarter - deck , just as if they were to be joint - commanders at sea , as 
well as to all appearances in port . and , as for captain ahab , no sign of 
him was yet to be seen ; only , they said he was in the cabin . but then , 
the idea was , that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the 
ship under weigh , and steering her well out to sea . indeed , as that was 
not at all his proper business , but the pilot ' s ; and as he was not 
yet completely recovered - so they said - therefore , captain ahab stayed 
below . and all this seemed natural enough ; especially as in the merchant 
service many captains never show themselves on deck for a considerable 
time after heaving up the anchor , but remain over the cabin table , 
having a farewell merry - making with their shore friends , before they 
quit the ship for good with the pilot . 
but there was not much chance to think over the matter , for captain 
peleg was now all alive . he seemed to do most of the talking and 
commanding , and not bildad . 
" aft here , ye sons of UNK , " he cried , as the sailors lingered at 
the main - mast . " mr . starbuck , drive ' em aft . " 
" strike the tent there ! " - was the next order . as i hinted before , this 
whalebone UNK was never pitched except in port ; and on board the 
pequod , for thirty years , the order to strike the tent was well known to 
be the next thing to heaving up the anchor . 
" man the capstan ! blood and thunder ! - jump ! " - was the next command , and 
the crew sprang for the handspikes . 
now in getting under weigh , the UNK generally occupied by the pilot 
is the forward part of the ship . and here bildad , who , with peleg , be it 
known , in UNK to his other officers , was one of the UNK pilots 
of the port - he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot in 
order to save the nantucket pilot - UNK to all the ships he was concerned 
in , for he never UNK any other craft - bildad , i say , might now 
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching 
anchor , and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody , 
to cheer the hands at the windlass , who roared forth some sort of 
a chorus about the girls in UNK UNK , with hearty good will . 
nevertheless , not three days previous , bildad had told them that no 
profane UNK would be allowed on board the pequod , particularly in 
getting under weigh ; and charity , his sister , had placed a small choice 
copy of UNK in each seaman ' s berth . 
meantime , overseeing the other part of the ship , captain peleg UNK 
and swore astern in the most frightful manner . i almost thought he would 
sink the ship before the anchor could be got up ; involuntarily i paused 
on my UNK , and told queequeg to do the same , thinking of the 
perils we both ran , in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a 
pilot . i was UNK myself , however , with the thought that in pious 
bildad might be found some salvation , spite of his seven hundred and 
seventy - seventh lay ; when i felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear , and 
turning round , was UNK at the apparition of captain peleg in the 
act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity . that was my first 
kick . 
" is that the way they heave in the marchant service ? " he roared . 
" spring , thou sheep - head ; spring , and break thy backbone ! why don ' t ye 
spring , i say , all of ye - spring ! quohog ! spring , thou chap with the red 
whiskers ; spring there , scotch - cap ; spring , thou green pants . spring , i 
say , all of ye , and spring your eyes out ! " and so saying , he moved 
along the windlass , here and there using his leg very freely , while 
UNK bildad kept leading off with his psalmody . thinks i , 
captain peleg must have been drinking something to - day . 
at last the anchor was up , the sails were set , and off we glided . it 
was a short , cold christmas ; and as the short northern day merged into 
night , we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean , whose 
freezing spray UNK us in ice , as in polished armor . the long rows of 
teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight ; and like the white 
ivory tusks of some huge elephant , vast curving icicles UNK from 
the bows . 
UNK bildad , as pilot , headed the first watch , and ever and anon , as the 
old craft deep dived into the green seas , and sent the shivering frost 
all over her , and the winds howled , and the cordage UNK , his steady 
notes were heard , - 
" sweet fields beyond the swelling flood , stand dressed in living green . 
so to the UNK old UNK stood , while UNK rolled between . " 
never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then . they 
were full of hope and UNK . spite of this frigid winter night in the 
boisterous atlantic , spite of my wet feet and UNK jacket , there was 
yet , it then seemed to me , many a pleasant haven in store ; and meads 
and glades so eternally vernal , that the grass shot up by the spring , 
UNK , UNK , remains at UNK . 
at last we gained such an offing , that the two pilots were needed 
no longer . the stout sail - boat that had accompanied us began ranging 
alongside . 
it was curious and not UNK , how peleg and bildad were affected at 
this juncture , especially captain bildad . for loath to depart , yet ; 
very loath to leave , for good , a ship bound on so long and perilous a 
voyage - beyond both stormy UNK ; a ship in which some thousands of 
his hard earned dollars were invested ; a ship , in which an old shipmate 
sailed as captain ; a man almost as old as he , once more starting to 
encounter all the terrors of the UNK jaw ; loath to say good - bye to 
a thing so every way UNK of every interest to him , - poor old bildad 
lingered long ; paced the deck with anxious strides ; ran down into the 
cabin to speak another farewell word there ; again came on deck , and 
looked to windward ; looked towards the wide and endless waters , only 
UNK by the far - off unseen eastern continents ; looked towards 
the land ; looked aloft ; looked right and left ; looked everywhere 
and nowhere ; and at last , mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin , 
convulsively grasped stout peleg by the hand , and holding up a lantern , 
for a moment stood gazing UNK in his face , as much as to say , 
" nevertheless , friend peleg , i can stand it ; yes , i can . " 
as for peleg himself , he took it more like a philosopher ; but for all 
his philosophy , there was a tear UNK in his eye , when the lantern 
came too near . and he , too , did not a little run from cabin to deck - now 
a word below , and now a word with starbuck , the chief mate . 
but , at last , he turned to his comrade , with a final sort of look 
about him , - " captain bildad - come , old shipmate , we must go . back the 
main - yard there ! boat ahoy ! stand by to come close alongside , now ! 
careful , careful ! - come , bildad , boy - say your last . luck to ye , 
starbuck - luck to ye , mr . stubb - luck to ye , mr . flask - good - bye and 
good luck to ye all - and this day three years i ' ll have a hot supper 
smoking for ye in old nantucket . hurrah and away ! " 
" god bless ye , and have ye in his holy keeping , men , " murmured old 
bildad , almost UNK . " i hope ye ' ll have fine weather now , so 
that captain ahab may soon be moving among ye - a pleasant sun is all 
he needs , and ye ' ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go . 
be careful in the hunt , ye mates . don ' t stave the boats UNK , 
ye harpooneers ; good white cedar plank is raised full three per UNK . 
within the year . don ' t forget your prayers , either . mr . starbuck , mind 
that cooper don ' t UNK the spare staves . oh ! the sail - needles are in 
the green locker ! don ' t whale it too much a ' lord ' s days , men ; but don ' t 
UNK a fair chance either , that ' s rejecting heaven ' s good UNK . have an 
eye to the molasses tierce , mr . stubb ; it was a little leaky , i thought . 
if ye touch at the islands , mr . flask , beware of UNK . good - bye , 
good - bye ! don ' t keep that cheese too long down in the hold , mr . 
starbuck ; it ' ll spoil . be careful with the butter - twenty cents the 
pound it was , and mind ye , if - " 
" come , come , captain bildad ; stop UNK , - away ! " and with that , 
peleg hurried him over the side , and both dropt into the boat . 
ship and boat UNK ; the cold , damp night breeze blew between ; a 
screaming gull flew overhead ; the two hulls wildly rolled ; we gave 
three heavy - hearted cheers , and blindly plunged like fate into the lone 
atlantic . 
chapter UNK . the lee shore . 
some chapters back , one bulkington was spoken of , a tall , UNK 
mariner , encountered in new bedford at the inn . 
when on that shivering winter ' s night , the pequod thrust her vindictive 
bows into the cold malicious waves , who should i see standing at her 
helm but bulkington ! i looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon 
the man , who in mid - winter just landed from a four years ' dangerous 
voyage , could so unrestingly push off again for still another 
tempestuous term . the land seemed scorching to his feet . UNK 
things are ever the UNK ; deep memories yield no UNK ; this 
six - inch chapter is the UNK grave of bulkington . let me only say 
that it UNK with him as with the storm - tossed ship , that miserably 
drives along the leeward land . the port would fain give succor ; the port 
is pitiful ; in the port is safety , comfort , UNK , supper , warm 
UNK , friends , all that ' s kind to our UNK . but in that gale , 
the port , the land , is that ship ' s direst jeopardy ; she must fly all 
hospitality ; one touch of land , though it but graze the keel , would make 
her shudder through and through . with all her might she crowds all sail 
off shore ; in so doing , fights ' UNK the very winds that fain would 
blow her homeward ; seeks all the lashed sea ' s landlessness again ; 
for refuge ' s sake UNK rushing into peril ; her only friend her 
bitterest foe ! 
know ye now , bulkington ? glimpses do ye seem to see of that UNK 
intolerable truth ; that all deep , earnest thinking is but the intrepid 
effort of the soul to keep the open UNK of her sea ; while 
the UNK winds of heaven and earth UNK to cast her on the 
treacherous , UNK shore ? 
but as in landlessness alone resides highest truth , UNK , 
indefinite as god - so , better is it to perish in that howling infinite , 
than be UNK dashed upon the lee , even if that were safety ! 
for worm - like , then , oh ! who would craven crawl to land ! terrors of 
the terrible ! is all this agony so vain ? take heart , take heart , 
o bulkington ! bear thee grimly , UNK ! up from the spray of thy 
ocean - perishing - straight up , leaps thy UNK ! 
chapter UNK . the advocate . 
as queequeg and i are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling ; 
and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among 
landsmen as a rather UNK and UNK pursuit ; therefore , i 
am all anxiety to UNK ye , ye landsmen , of the injustice hereby done 
to us hunters of whales . 
in the first place , it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish 
the fact , that among people at large , the business of whaling is not 
accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions . if a 
stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society , 
it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his UNK , were 
he presented to the company as a harpooneer , say ; and if in UNK 
of the naval officers he should UNK the UNK s . UNK . f . ( sperm 
whale fishery ) to his visiting card , such a procedure would be deemed 
pre - UNK UNK and ridiculous . 
doubtless one leading reason why the world declines UNK us 
whalemen , is this : they think that , at best , our vocation UNK to a 
UNK sort of business ; and that when actively engaged therein , we 
are surrounded by all manner of UNK . butchers we are , that is 
true . but butchers , also , and butchers of the UNK badge have been 
all martial commanders whom the world invariably UNK to honour . and 
as for the matter of the alleged UNK of our business , ye shall 
soon be UNK into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown , 
and which , upon the whole , will UNK plant the sperm whale - ship 
at least among the UNK things of this tidy earth . but even 
granting the charge in question to be true ; what disordered slippery 
decks of a whale - ship are UNK to the unspeakable UNK of those 
battle - fields from which so many soldiers return to drink in all ladies ' 
UNK ? and if the idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit 
of the UNK ' s profession ; let me assure ye that many a veteran 
who has freely marched up to a battery , would quickly UNK at the 
apparition of the sperm whale ' s vast tail , fanning into eddies the air 
over his head . for what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared 
with the UNK terrors and wonders of god ! 
but , though the world UNK at us whale hunters , yet does it 
unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage ; yea , an all - abounding 
adoration ! for almost all the tapers , lamps , and candles that burn round 
the globe , burn , as before so many UNK , to our glory ! 
but look at this matter in other lights ; weigh it in all sorts of 
scales ; see what we whalemen are , and have been . 
why did the dutch in de UNK ' s time have admirals of their whaling 
fleets ? why did louis UNK . of france , at his own personal expense , fit 
out whaling ships from UNK , and politely UNK to that town some 
score or two of families from our own island of nantucket ? why did 
UNK between the years UNK and UNK pay to her whalemen in UNK 
upwards of UNK , 000 , 000 ? and lastly , how comes it that we whalemen of 
america now UNK all the rest of the UNK whalemen in the world ; 
sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels ; manned by eighteen 
thousand men ; UNK consuming 4 , 000 , 000 of dollars ; the ships worth , 
at the time of sailing , UNK , 000 , 000 ! and every year UNK into our 
harbors a well reaped harvest of UNK , 000 , 000 . how comes all this , if 
there be not something UNK in whaling ? 
but this is not the half ; look again . 
i freely assert , that the UNK philosopher cannot , for his life , 
point out one single peaceful influence , which within the last sixty 
years has operated more UNK upon the whole broad world , taken in 
one aggregate , than the high and mighty business of whaling . one way 
and another , it has UNK events so remarkable in themselves , and so 
continuously momentous in their UNK UNK , that whaling may 
well be regarded as that egyptian mother , who bore UNK themselves 
pregnant from her UNK . it would be a hopeless , endless task to 
UNK all these things . let a handful UNK . for many years past 
the whale - ship has been the pioneer in UNK out the remotest and 
least known parts of the earth . she has explored seas and archipelagoes 
which had no chart , where no cook or vancouver had ever sailed . if 
american and european men - of - war now UNK ride in once savage 
harbors , let them fire UNK to the honour and glory of the 
whale - ship , which originally showed them the way , and first UNK 
between them and the savages . they may celebrate as they will the heroes 
of UNK UNK , your cooks , your UNK ; but i say that 
scores of anonymous captains have sailed out of nantucket , that were 
as great , and greater than your cook and your krusenstern . for in their 
UNK empty - UNK , they , in the heathenish UNK waters , 
and by the beaches of unrecorded , javelin islands , UNK with virgin 
wonders and terrors that cook with all his marines and muskets would 
not willingly have dared . all that is made such a flourish of in the old 
south sea voyages , those things were but the life - time UNK of 
our UNK nantucketers . often , adventures which vancouver UNK 
three chapters to , these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the 
ship ' s common log . ah , the world ! oh , the world ! 
until the whale fishery rounded cape horn , no commerce but UNK , 
scarcely any UNK but UNK , was carried on between europe and 
the long line of the opulent spanish UNK on the pacific coast . 
it was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy of the 
spanish crown , touching those colonies ; and , if space permitted , it 
might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last UNK the 
UNK of peru , chili , and bolivia from the yoke of old spain , and 
the UNK of the eternal democracy in those parts . 
that great america on the other side of the sphere , UNK , was given 
to the enlightened world by the whaleman . after its first UNK - born 
discovery by a UNK , all other ships long shunned those shores 
as UNK UNK ; but the whale - ship touched there . the 
whale - ship is the true mother of that now mighty UNK . moreover , 
in the infancy of the first UNK UNK , the emigrants were 
several times saved from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the 
whale - ship UNK dropping an anchor in their waters . the uncounted 
isles of all UNK confess the same truth , and do UNK homage 
to the whale - ship , that cleared the way for the missionary and the 
merchant , and in many cases carried the primitive UNK to their 
first UNK . if that double - bolted land , japan , is ever to become 
hospitable , it is the whale - ship alone to whom the credit will be due ; 
for already she is on the threshold . 
but if , in the face of all this , you still declare that whaling has no 
UNK noble associations connected with it , then am i ready to 
shiver fifty lances with you there , and UNK you with a split helmet 
every time . 
the whale has no famous author , and whaling no famous UNK , you 
will say . 
the whale no famous author , and whaling no famous UNK ? who wrote 
the first account of our leviathan ? who but mighty job ! and who composed 
the first narrative of a whaling - voyage ? who , but no less a prince than 
UNK the great , who , with his own royal pen , took down the words from 
other , the UNK whale - hunter of those times ! and who pronounced our 
glowing UNK in UNK ? who , but UNK UNK ! 
true enough , but then whalemen themselves are poor devils ; they have no 
good blood in their veins . 
no good blood in their veins ? they have something better than royal 
blood there . the UNK of UNK UNK was mary UNK ; 
afterwards , by UNK , mary UNK , one of the old UNK 
of nantucket , and the UNK to a long line of UNK and 
harpooneers - all kith and UNK to noble UNK - this day darting the 
barbed iron from one side of the world to the other . 
good again ; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not 
respectable . 
whaling not respectable ? whaling is imperial ! by old english UNK 
law , the whale is declared " a royal fish . " * 
oh , that ' s only nominal ! the whale himself has never figured in any 
grand imposing way . 
the whale never figured in any grand imposing way ? in one of the mighty 
UNK given to a roman general upon his entering the world ' s capital , 
the bones of a whale , brought all the way from the syrian coast , were 
the most conspicuous object in the UNK procession . * 
* see subsequent chapters for something more on this head . 
grant it , since you UNK it ; but , say what you will , there is no real 
dignity in whaling . 
no dignity in whaling ? the dignity of our calling the very heavens 
UNK . cetus is a constellation in the south ! no more ! drive down your 
hat in presence of the czar , and take it off to queequeg ! no more ! i 
know a man that , in his lifetime , has taken three hundred and fifty 
whales . i account that man more honourable than that great captain of 
antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns . 
and , as for me , if , by any possibility , there be any as yet UNK 
prime thing in me ; if i shall ever UNK any real UNK in that small 
but high hushed world which i might not be unreasonably ambitious of ; if 
hereafter i shall do anything that , upon the whole , a man might rather 
have done than to have left undone ; if , at my death , my executors , or 
more properly my UNK , find any precious UNK . in my desk , then here 
i UNK ascribe all the honour and the glory to whaling ; for a 
whale - ship was my UNK UNK and my UNK . 
chapter 25 . UNK . 
in UNK of the dignity of whaling , i would fain advance naught but 
substantiated facts . but after UNK his facts , an advocate who 
should wholly UNK a not unreasonable surmise , which might 
tell UNK upon his cause - such an advocate , would he not be 
UNK ? 
it is well known that at the coronation of kings and queens , even modern 
ones , a certain curious process of UNK them for their UNK is 
gone through . there is a UNK of state , so called , and there 
may be a castor of state . how they use the salt , precisely - who knows ? 
certain i am , however , that a king ' s head is solemnly UNK at his 
coronation , even as a head of UNK . can it be , though , that they 
UNK it with a view of making its interior run well , as they UNK 
UNK ? much might be ruminated here , concerning the essential 
dignity of this regal process , because in common life we esteem but 
UNK and UNK a fellow who UNK his hair , and UNK 
smells of that anointing . in truth , a UNK man who uses hair - oil , 
unless UNK , that man has probably got a UNK spot in him 
somewhere . as a general rule , he can ' t amount to much in his UNK . 
but the only thing to be considered here , is this - what kind of oil is 
used at UNK ? certainly it cannot be olive oil , nor UNK oil , 
nor castor oil , nor bear ' s oil , nor train oil , nor cod - liver oil . what 
then can it possibly be , but sperm oil in its unmanufactured , UNK 
state , the UNK of all UNK ? 
think of that , ye UNK UNK ! we whalemen supply your kings and 
queens with coronation stuff ! 
chapter UNK . knights and squires . 
the chief mate of the pequod was starbuck , a native of nantucket , and a 
quaker by descent . he was a long , earnest man , and though born on an icy 
coast , seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes , his flesh being hard 
as twice - baked biscuit . transported to the UNK , his live blood would 
not spoil like bottled ale . he must have been born in some time of 
general drought and famine , or upon one of those fast days for which 
his state is famous . only some thirty arid UNK had he seen ; those 
UNK had dried up all his physical UNK . but this , his 
UNK , so to speak , seemed no more the token of UNK UNK and 
cares , than it seemed the UNK of any bodily UNK . it was merely 
the UNK of the man . he was by no means ill - looking ; quite the 
contrary . his pure tight skin was an excellent fit ; and closely wrapped 
up in it , and embalmed with inner health and strength , like a UNK 
egyptian , this starbuck seemed prepared to endure for long ages to come , 
and to endure always , as now ; for be it polar snow or torrid sun , like 
a UNK UNK , his interior vitality was UNK to do well 
in all climates . looking into his eyes , you seemed to see there the yet 
lingering UNK of those thousand - fold perils he had calmly UNK 
through life . a staid , UNK man , whose life for the most part was a 
telling UNK of action , and not a tame chapter of sounds . yet , for 
all his hardy UNK and fortitude , there were certain qualities 
in him which at times affected , and in some cases seemed well nigh to 
UNK all the rest . uncommonly conscientious for a seaman , and 
UNK with a deep natural reverence , the wild watery UNK of his 
life did therefore strongly incline him to superstition ; but to that 
sort of superstition , which in some UNK seems rather to 
spring , somehow , from intelligence than from ignorance . outward portents 
and inward UNK were his . and if at times these things bent the 
welded iron of his soul , much more did his far - away domestic memories 
of his young cape wife and child , tend to bend him still more from the 
original UNK of his nature , and open him still further to those 
latent influences which , in some honest - hearted men , restrain the gush 
of dare - devil daring , so often evinced by others in the more perilous 
vicissitudes of the fishery . " i will have no man in my boat , " said 
starbuck , " who is not afraid of a whale . " by this , he seemed to mean , 
not only that the most reliable and useful courage was that which UNK 
from the fair estimation of the encountered peril , but that an utterly 
fearless man is a far more dangerous comrade than a coward . 
" aye , aye , " said stubb , the second mate , " starbuck , there , is as careful 
a man as you ' ll find anywhere in this fishery . " but we shall ere long 
see what that word " careful " precisely means when used by a man like 
stubb , or almost any other whale hunter . 
starbuck was no UNK after perils ; in him courage was not a 
sentiment ; but a thing simply useful to him , and always at hand upon all 
UNK practical occasions . besides , he thought , perhaps , that in this 
business of whaling , courage was one of the great UNK outfits of 
the ship , like her beef and her bread , and not to be foolishly wasted . 
wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun - down ; nor 
for UNK in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting 
him . for , thought starbuck , i am here in this critical ocean to kill 
whales for my living , and not to be killed by them for theirs ; and that 
hundreds of men had been so killed starbuck well knew . what doom was 
his own father ' s ? where , in the bottomless deeps , could he find the torn 
limbs of his brother ? 
with memories like these in him , and , moreover , given to a certain 
superstitiousness , as has been said ; the courage of this starbuck which 
could , nevertheless , still flourish , must indeed have been extreme . but 
it was not in reasonable nature that a man so UNK , and with such 
terrible experiences and UNK as he had ; it was not in nature 
that these things should fail in UNK UNK an element in 
him , which , under UNK circumstances , would break out from its 
confinement , and burn all his courage up . and brave as he might be , it 
was that sort of UNK chiefly , visible in some intrepid men , which , 
while generally UNK firm in the UNK with seas , or winds , or 
whales , or any of the ordinary UNK horrors of the world , yet 
cannot withstand those more terrific , because more spiritual terrors , 
which sometimes UNK you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and 
mighty man . 
but were the coming narrative to UNK in any instance , the complete 
UNK of poor starbuck ' s fortitude , scarce might i have the heart to 
write it ; for it is a thing most UNK , nay shocking , to expose 
the fall of UNK in the soul . men may seem detestable as joint 
stock - companies and nations ; UNK , fools , and murderers there may be ; 
men may have mean and meagre faces ; but man , in the ideal , is so noble 
and so sparkling , such a grand and glowing creature , that over any 
UNK UNK in him all his fellows should run to throw their 
costliest robes . that immaculate UNK we feel within ourselves , 
so far within us , that it remains intact though all the outer character 
seem gone ; bleeds with UNK anguish at the UNK spectacle of 
a UNK - UNK man . nor can piety itself , at such a shameful sight , 
completely UNK her UNK against the permitting stars . but this 
august dignity i treat of , is not the dignity of kings and robes , but 
that abounding dignity which has no UNK investiture . thou shalt see it 
shining in the arm that UNK a pick or drives a spike ; that democratic 
dignity which , on all hands , UNK without end from god ; himself ! the 
great god absolute ! the centre and circumference of all democracy ! his 
UNK , our divine equality ! 
if , then , to meanest mariners , and renegades and UNK , i shall 
hereafter ascribe high qualities , though dark ; UNK round them tragic 
UNK ; if even the most UNK , perchance the most abased , among them 
all , shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts ; if i shall touch 
that workman ' s arm with some UNK light ; if i shall spread a UNK 
over his disastrous set of sun ; then against all mortal UNK bear 
me out in it , thou just spirit of equality , which hast spread one royal 
UNK of humanity over all my kind ! bear me out in it , thou great 
democratic god ! who didst not refuse to the swart UNK , UNK , the 
pale , poetic pearl ; thou who didst UNK with UNK hammered leaves 
of finest gold , the UNK and UNK arm of old UNK ; thou who 
didst pick up UNK UNK from the UNK ; who didst UNK him upon a 
war - horse ; who didst thunder him higher than a throne ! thou who , in all 
thy mighty , earthly UNK , ever UNK thy UNK UNK from 
the UNK UNK ; bear me out in it , o god ! 
chapter UNK . knights and squires . 
stubb was the second mate . he was a native of cape cod ; and hence , 
according to local usage , was called a cape - cod - man . a happy - go - lucky ; 
neither craven nor valiant ; taking perils as they came with an 
indifferent air ; and while engaged in the most imminent UNK of the 
chase , toiling away , calm and collected as a UNK UNK engaged 
for the year . good - UNK , easy , and careless , he presided over his 
whale - boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner , and his 
crew all invited guests . he was as particular about the comfortable 
arrangement of his part of the boat , as an old stage - driver is about the 
snugness of his box . when close to the whale , in the very death - lock of 
the fight , he handled his UNK lance coolly and off - UNK , as 
a UNK UNK his hammer . he would hum over his old UNK UNK 
while flank and flank with the most exasperated monster . long usage had , 
for this stubb , converted the jaws of death into an easy chair . what he 
thought of death itself , there is no telling . whether he ever thought of 
it at all , might be a question ; but , if he ever did chance to cast his 
mind that way after a comfortable dinner , no doubt , like a good sailor , 
he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumble aloft , and bestir 
themselves there , about something which he would find out when he UNK 
the order , and not sooner . 
what , perhaps , with other things , made stubb such an easy - going , 
UNK man , so cheerily UNK off with the burden of life in a 
world full of grave UNK , all bowed to the ground with their UNK ; 
what helped to bring about that almost impious good - humor of his ; that 
thing must have been his pipe . for , like his nose , his short , black 
little pipe was one of the regular features of his face . you would 
almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his UNK without his 
nose as without his pipe . he kept a whole row of pipes there ready 
loaded , stuck in a rack , within easy reach of his hand ; and , whenever he 
turned in , he smoked them all out in succession , lighting one from 
the other to the end of the chapter ; then loading them again to be in 
readiness anew . for , when stubb dressed , instead of first putting his 
legs into his trowsers , he put his pipe into his mouth . 
i say this continual smoking must have been one cause , at least , of his 
peculiar UNK ; for every one knows that this earthly air , whether 
ashore or afloat , is UNK UNK with the nameless miseries of 
the numberless mortals who have died UNK it ; and as in time of the 
cholera , some people go about with a UNK handkerchief to their 
mouths ; so , likewise , against all mortal tribulations , stubb ' s tobacco 
smoke might have operated as a sort of UNK agent . 
the third mate was flask , a native of UNK , in martha ' s vineyard . a 
short , stout , ruddy young fellow , very pugnacious concerning whales , 
who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally 
and hereditarily UNK him ; and therefore it was a sort of point of 
honour with him , to destroy them whenever encountered . so utterly lost 
was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic 
bulk and mystic ways ; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of 
any possible danger from encountering them ; that in his poor opinion , 
the wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse , or at least 
water - rat , requiring only a little UNK and some small 
application of time and trouble in order to kill and UNK . this 
ignorant , unconscious UNK of his made him a little waggish in 
the matter of whales ; he followed these fish for the fun of it ; and a 
three years ' voyage round cape horn was only a jolly joke that lasted 
that length of time . as a carpenter ' s nails are divided into wrought 
nails and cut nails ; so mankind may be UNK divided . little flask 
was one of the wrought ones ; made to clinch tight and last long . they 
called him king - post on board of the pequod ; because , in form , he could 
be well likened to the short , square timber known by that name in arctic 
whalers ; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers inserted 
into it , UNK to brace the ship against the icy UNK of those 
battering seas . 
now these three mates - starbuck , stubb , and flask , were momentous 
men . they it was who by universal UNK commanded three of the 
pequod ' s boats as headsmen . in that grand order of battle in which 
captain ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales , 
these three headsmen were as captains of companies . or , being armed with 
their long keen whaling spears , they were as a picked UNK of UNK ; 
even as the harpooneers were UNK of UNK . 
and since in this famous fishery , each mate or headsman , like a gothic 
knight of old , is always accompanied by his boat - steerer or harpooneer , 
who in certain UNK provides him with a fresh lance , when 
the former one has been badly twisted , or elbowed in the assault ; and 
moreover , as there generally UNK between the two , a close UNK 
and UNK ; it is therefore but meet , that in this place we set 
down who the pequod ' s harpooneers were , and to what headsman each of 
them belonged . 
first of all was queequeg , whom starbuck , the chief mate , had selected 
for his squire . but queequeg is already known . 
next was tashtego , an UNK indian from gay head , the most UNK 
promontory of martha ' s vineyard , where there still exists the last 
UNK of a village of red men , which has long supplied the neighboring 
island of nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneers . in the 
fishery , they usually go by the generic name of gay - headers . tashtego ' s 
long , lean , sable hair , his high cheek bones , and black rounding 
eyes - for an indian , oriental in their UNK , but antarctic in their 
glittering expression - all this sufficiently UNK him an UNK 
of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunters , who , in quest 
of the great new england moose , had UNK , bow in hand , the aboriginal 
forests of the main . but no longer snuffing in the trail of the wild 
beasts of the UNK , tashtego now hunted in the wake of the great 
whales of the sea ; the unerring harpoon of the son UNK replacing the 
infallible arrow of the UNK . to look at the tawny brawn of his lithe 
snaky limbs , you would almost have credited the superstitions of some of 
the earlier UNK , and half - believed this wild indian to be a son 
of the prince of the powers of the air . tashtego was stubb the second 
mate ' s squire . 
third among the harpooneers was daggoo , a gigantic , coal - black 
negro - savage , with a lion - like tread - an UNK to behold . suspended 
from his ears were two golden hoops , so large that the sailors called 
them ring - bolts , and would talk of securing the top - sail halyards to 
them . in his youth daggoo had UNK shipped on board of a whaler , 
lying in a lonely bay on his native coast . and never having been 
anywhere in the world but in africa , nantucket , and the pagan harbors 
most frequented by whalemen ; and having now led for many years the bold 
life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what 
manner of men they shipped ; daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues , 
and erect as a UNK , moved about the decks in all the UNK of six 
feet five in his socks . there was a corporeal humility in looking up at 
him ; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to 
beg UNK of a UNK . curious to tell , this imperial negro , UNK 
daggoo , was the squire of little flask , who looked like a UNK - man 
beside him . as for the UNK of the pequod ' s company , be it said , that 
at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the 
mast employed in the american whale fishery , are americans born , though 
pretty nearly all the officers are . herein it is the same with the 
american whale fishery as with the american army and military and 
merchant navies , and the UNK forces employed in the UNK 
of the american canals and UNK . the same , i say , because in all 
these cases the native american UNK provides the brains , the rest 
of the world as UNK UNK the muscles . no small number of 
these whaling seamen belong to the azores , where the outward bound 
nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy 
UNK of those UNK shores . in like manner , the greenland whalers 
sailing out of hull or london , put in at the UNK islands , to 
receive the full UNK of their crew . upon the passage UNK , 
they drop them there again . how it is , there is no telling , but 
islanders seem to make the best whalemen . they were nearly all islanders 
in the pequod , UNK too , i call such , not UNK the common 
continent of men , but each UNK living on a separate continent of his 
own . yet now , UNK along one keel , what a set these UNK were ! 
an UNK UNK UNK from all the isles of the sea , and all 
the ends of the earth , accompanying old ahab in the pequod to lay the 
world ' s UNK before that bar from which not very many of them ever 
come back . black little pip - he never did - oh , no ! he went before . poor 
alabama boy ! on the grim pequod ' s forecastle , ye shall ere long see him , 
beating his tambourine ; UNK of the eternal time , when sent for , 
to the great quarter - deck on high , he was bid strike in with angels , and 
beat his tambourine in glory ; called a coward here , hailed a hero there ! 
chapter UNK . ahab . 
for several days after leaving nantucket , nothing above hatches was seen 
of captain ahab . the mates regularly relieved each other at the watches , 
and for aught that could be seen to the contrary , they seemed to be the 
only commanders of the ship ; only they sometimes issued from the cabin 
with orders so sudden and peremptory , that after all it was plain they 
but commanded UNK . yes , their supreme lord and dictator was 
there , though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate 
into the now sacred retreat of the cabin . 
every time i ascended to the deck from my watches below , i instantly 
gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible ; for my first vague 
UNK touching the unknown captain , now in the UNK of the 
sea , became almost a UNK . this was strangely heightened 
at times by the ragged elijah ' s diabolical UNK UNK 
recurring to me , with a subtle energy i could not have before conceived 
of . but UNK could i withstand them , much as in other moods i was 
almost ready to smile at the solemn UNK of that outlandish 
prophet of the wharves . but whatever it was of apprehensiveness or 
uneasiness - to call it so - which i felt , yet whenever i came to look 
about me in the ship , it seemed against all UNK to cherish such 
emotions . for though the harpooneers , with the great body of the crew , 
were a far more barbaric , heathenish , and UNK set than any of the 
tame merchant - ship companies which my previous experiences had made me 
acquainted with , still i ascribed this - and rightly ascribed it - to the 
fierce UNK of the very nature of that wild scandinavian vocation 
in which i had so UNK embarked . but it was especially the aspect 
of the three chief officers of the ship , the mates , which was most 
forcibly calculated to UNK these colourless misgivings , and induce 
confidence and UNK in every UNK of the voyage . three 
better , more UNK sea - officers and men , each in his own different way , 
could not readily be found , and they were every one of them americans ; a 
nantucketer , a vineyarder , a cape man . now , it being christmas when the 
ship shot from out her harbor , for a space we had biting polar weather , 
though all the time running away from it to the UNK ; and by every 
degree and minute of latitude which we sailed , gradually leaving that 
UNK winter , and all its intolerable weather behind us . it was one 
of those less lowering , but still grey and gloomy enough UNK of the 
transition , when with a fair wind the ship was rushing through the water 
with a vindictive sort of leaping and melancholy UNK , that as i 
mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch , so soon as i 
levelled my glance towards the taffrail , foreboding UNK ran over me . 
reality UNK apprehension ; captain ahab stood upon his quarter - deck . 
there seemed no sign of common bodily UNK about him , nor of the 
recovery from any . he looked like a man cut away from the stake , when 
the fire has UNK wasted all the limbs without consuming them , 
or taking away one particle from their UNK aged robustness . his 
whole high , broad form , seemed made of solid bronze , and shaped in an 
unalterable mould , like UNK ' s cast perseus . threading its way out 
from among his grey hairs , and continuing right down one side of his 
tawny scorched face and neck , till it disappeared in his clothing , 
you saw a slender rod - like mark , UNK whitish . it resembled that 
perpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight , lofty trunk of 
a great tree , when the upper lightning UNK darts down it , and 
without wrenching a single twig , peels and grooves out the bark from top 
to bottom , ere running off into the soil , leaving the tree still UNK 
alive , but branded . whether that mark was born with him , or whether it 
was the scar left by some desperate wound , no one could certainly say . 
by some UNK UNK , throughout the voyage little or no allusion was 
made to it , especially by the mates . but once tashtego ' s UNK , an old 
gay - head indian among the crew , superstitiously asserted that not till 
he was full forty years old did ahab become that way branded , and 
then it came upon him , not in the fury of any mortal UNK , but in 
an UNK UNK at sea . yet , this wild hint seemed UNK 
UNK , by what a grey manxman UNK , an old UNK man , 
who , having never before sailed out of nantucket , had never ere this 
laid eye upon wild ahab . nevertheless , the old sea - traditions , the 
immemorial UNK , popularly invested this old manxman with 
preternatural powers of discernment . so that no white sailor seriously 
UNK him when he said that if ever captain ahab should 
be tranquilly laid out - which might hardly come to pass , so he 
muttered - then , whoever should do that last office for the dead , would 
find a birth - mark on him from crown to sole . 
so UNK did the whole grim aspect of ahab affect me , and the UNK 
UNK which UNK it , that for the first few moments i hardly noted 
that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric 
white leg upon which he partly stood . it had previously come to me that 
this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished bone of 
the sperm whale ' s jaw . " aye , he was dismasted off japan , " said the old 
gay - head indian once ; " but like his dismasted craft , he shipped another 
mast without coming home for it . he has a quiver of ' em . " 
i was struck with the singular posture he maintained . upon each side of 
the pequod ' s quarter deck , and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds , there 
was an UNK hole , bored about half an inch or so , into the plank . 
his bone leg UNK in that hole ; one arm elevated , and holding by a 
shroud ; captain ahab stood erect , looking straight out beyond the 
ship ' s ever - pitching prow . there was an UNK of UNK fortitude , 
a determinate , UNK UNK , in the fixed and fearless , 
forward UNK of that glance . not a word he spoke ; nor did his 
officers say aught to him ; though by all their minutest gestures 
and expressions , they plainly showed the uneasy , if not UNK , 
consciousness of being under a troubled master - eye . and not only that , 
but moody stricken ahab stood before them with a UNK in his 
face ; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe . 
ere long , from his first visit in the air , he withdrew into his cabin . 
but after that morning , he was every day visible to the crew ; either 
standing in his pivot - hole , or seated upon an ivory stool he had ; or 
heavily walking the deck . as the sky grew less gloomy ; indeed , began to 
grow a little genial , he became still less and less a UNK ; as 
if , when the ship had sailed from home , nothing but the dead wintry 
UNK of the sea had then kept him so secluded . and , by and by , it 
came to pass , that he was almost continually in the air ; but , as yet , 
for all that he said , or perceptibly did , on the at last sunny deck , 
he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast . but the pequod was 
only making a passage now ; not regularly cruising ; nearly all whaling 
UNK UNK UNK the mates were fully competent to , so 
that there was little or nothing , out of himself , to UNK or UNK 
ahab , now ; and thus chase away , for that one interval , the clouds that 
layer upon layer were piled upon his brow , as ever all clouds choose the 
loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon . 
nevertheless , ere long , the warm , UNK UNK of the 
pleasant , UNK weather we came to , seemed gradually to charm him from 
his mood . for , as when the red - UNK , dancing girls , april and may , 
trip home to the wintry , misanthropic woods ; even the UNK , UNK , 
most thunder - UNK old oak will at least send forth some few green 
UNK , to welcome such glad - hearted UNK ; so ahab did , in the 
end , a little UNK to the playful UNK of that UNK air . more 
than once did he put forth the faint UNK of a look , which , in any 
other man , would have soon UNK out in a smile . 
chapter UNK . enter ahab ; to him , stubb . 
some days elapsed , and ice and icebergs all astern , the pequod now 
went rolling through the bright quito spring , which , at sea , almost 
UNK reigns on the threshold of the eternal august of the tropic . 
the UNK cool , clear , ringing , UNK , UNK , redundant days , 
were as crystal goblets of persian UNK , UNK up - UNK up , with 
rose - water snow . the UNK and stately nights seemed haughty dames in 
jewelled velvets , nursing at home in lonely pride , the memory of their 
absent UNK UNK , the golden UNK suns ! for sleeping man , 
' twas hard to choose between such UNK days and such UNK nights . 
but all the UNK of that unwaning weather did not merely UNK new 
UNK and UNK to the outward world . inward they turned upon the 
soul , especially when the still mild hours of eve came on ; then , memory 
shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless UNK . 
and all these subtle agencies , more and more they wrought on ahab ' s 
UNK . 
old age is always wakeful ; as if , the longer linked with life , the less 
man has to do with aught that looks like death . among sea - commanders , 
the old UNK will UNK leave their UNK to visit the 
night - UNK deck . it was so with ahab ; only that now , of late , he 
seemed so much to live in the open air , that truly speaking , his visits 
were more to the cabin , than from the cabin to the planks . " it feels 
like going down into one ' s tomb , " - he would mutter to himself - " for an 
old captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle , to go to my 
grave - dug berth . " 
so , almost every twenty - four hours , when the watches of the night were 
set , and the band on deck UNK the slumbers of the band below ; 
and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle , the sailors 
flung it not rudely down , as by day , but with some UNK dropt 
it to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates ; when 
this sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail , UNK , the 
silent steersman would watch the cabin - scuttle ; and ere long the old man 
would emerge , UNK at the iron UNK , to help his crippled way . 
some considering touch of humanity was in him ; for at times like these , 
he usually UNK from UNK the quarter - deck ; because to his 
wearied mates , seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel , such 
would have been the UNK crack and din of that bony step , that 
their dreams would have been on the UNK teeth of sharks . but once , 
the mood was on him too deep for common UNK ; and as with heavy , 
lumber - like pace he was UNK the ship from taffrail to mainmast , 
stubb , the old second mate , came up from below , with a certain 
UNK , UNK humorousness , hinted that if captain ahab was 
pleased to walk the planks , then , no one could say nay ; but there might 
be some way of UNK the noise ; hinting something UNK and 
UNK about a globe of tow , and the insertion into it , of the 
ivory heel . ah ! stubb , thou didst not know ahab then . 
" am i a cannon - ball , stubb , " said ahab , " that thou UNK wad me that 
fashion ? but go thy ways ; i had forgot . below to thy UNK grave ; 
where such as ye sleep between shrouds , to use ye to the filling one at 
last . - down , dog , and UNK ! " 
starting at the UNK concluding exclamation of the so suddenly 
scornful old man , stubb was speechless a moment ; then said UNK , " i 
am not used to be spoken to that way , sir ; i do but less than half like 
it , sir . " 
" avast ! UNK ahab between his set teeth , and violently moving away , 
as if to avoid some passionate UNK . 
" no , sir ; not yet , " said stubb , emboldened , " i will not tamely be called 
a dog , sir . " 
" then be called ten times a donkey , and a mule , and an UNK , and begone , 
or i ' ll clear the world of thee ! " 
as he said this , ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in 
his aspect , that stubb involuntarily retreated . 
" i was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it , " 
muttered stubb , as he found himself descending the cabin - scuttle . " it ' s 
very queer . stop , stubb ; somehow , now , i don ' t well know whether to go 
back and strike him , or - what ' s that ? - down here on my knees and pray 
for him ? yes , that was the thought coming up in me ; but it would be the 
first time i ever did pray . it ' s queer ; very queer ; and he ' s queer too ; 
aye , take him fore and aft , he ' s about the queerest old man stubb ever 
sailed with . how he UNK at me ! - his eyes like powder - pans ! is he 
mad ? UNK there ' s something on his mind , as sure as there must be 
something on a deck when it cracks . he aint in his bed now , either , more 
than three hours out of the twenty - four ; and he don ' t sleep then . didn ' t 
that dough - boy , the steward , tell me that of a morning he always finds 
the old man ' s hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled , and the sheets 
down at the foot , and the UNK almost tied into knots , and the 
pillow a sort of frightful hot , as though a baked brick had been on 
it ? a hot old man ! i guess he ' s got what some folks ashore call 
a conscience ; it ' s a kind of UNK - UNK - row they say - worse nor a 
UNK . well , well ; i don ' t know what it is , but the lord keep me 
from catching it . he ' s full of riddles ; i wonder what he goes into the 
after hold for , every night , as dough - boy tells me he suspects ; what ' s 
that for , i should like to know ? who ' s made UNK with him in 
the hold ? ain ' t that queer , now ? but there ' s no telling , it ' s the old 
game - here goes for a UNK . damn me , it ' s worth a fellow ' s while to be 
born into the world , if only to fall right asleep . and now that i think 
of it , that ' s about the first thing babies do , and that ' s a sort of 
queer , too . damn me , but all things are queer , come to think of ' em . but 
that ' s against my principles . think not , is my UNK UNK ; and 
sleep when you can , is my UNK - so here goes again . but how ' s that ? 
didn ' t he call me a dog ? UNK ! he called me ten times a donkey , and 
piled a lot of UNK on top of that ! he might as well have kicked 
me , and done with it . maybe he did kick me , and i didn ' t observe it , 
i was so taken all aback with his brow , somehow . it UNK like a 
bleached bone . what the devil ' s the matter with me ? i don ' t stand right 
on my legs . coming UNK of that old man has a sort of turned me wrong 
side out . by the lord , i must have been dreaming , though - how ? how ? 
how ? - but the only way ' s to UNK it ; so here goes to hammock again ; 
and in the morning , i ' ll see how this UNK juggling thinks over by 
daylight . " 
chapter 30 . the pipe . 
when stubb had departed , ahab stood for a while leaning over the 
bulwarks ; and then , as had been usual with him of late , calling a sailor 
of the watch , he sent him below for his ivory stool , and also his pipe . 
lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stool on the 
weather side of the deck , he sat and smoked . 
in old UNK times , the UNK of the sea - loving danish kings were 
UNK , saith UNK , of the tusks of the narwhale . how could one 
look at ahab then , seated on that UNK of bones , without bethinking 
him of the royalty it UNK ? for a UNK of the plank , and a king of 
the sea , and a great lord of leviathans was ahab . 
some moments passed , during which the thick vapour came from his mouth 
in quick and constant puffs , which blew back again into his face . " how 
now , " he soliloquized at last , withdrawing the tube , " this smoking no 
longer UNK . oh , my pipe ! hard must it go with me if thy charm be 
gone ! here have i been unconsciously toiling , not UNK - aye , and 
ignorantly smoking to windward all the while ; to windward , and with 
such nervous UNK , as if , like the dying whale , my final jets were the 
strongest and fullest of trouble . what business have i with this pipe ? 
this thing that is meant for UNK , to send up mild white vapours 
among mild white hairs , not among torn iron - grey locks like mine . i ' ll 
smoke no more - " 
he tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea . the fire hissed in the 
waves ; the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe 
made . with slouched hat , ahab UNK paced the planks . 
chapter UNK . queen UNK . 
next morning stubb accosted flask . 
" such a queer dream , king - post , i never had . you know the old man ' s 
ivory leg , well i dreamed he kicked me with it ; and when i tried to kick 
back , upon my soul , my little man , i kicked my leg right off ! and then , 
UNK ! ahab seemed a pyramid , and i , like a blazing fool , kept kicking 
at it . but what was still more curious , flask - you know how curious all 
dreams are - through all this rage that i was in , i somehow seemed to be 
thinking to myself , that after all , it was not much of an insult , that 
kick from ahab . ' why , ' thinks i , ' what ' s the row ? it ' s not a real leg , 
only a false leg . ' and there ' s a mighty difference between a living 
thump and a dead thump . that ' s what makes a blow from the hand , flask , 
fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane . the living 
member - that makes the living insult , my little man . and thinks i to 
myself all the while , mind , while i was UNK my silly toes against 
that cursed pyramid - so UNK contradictory was it all , all 
the while , i say , i was thinking to myself , ' what ' s his leg now , but 
a cane - a whalebone cane . yes , ' thinks i , ' it was only a playful 
UNK - in fact , only a UNK that he gave me - not a base 
kick . besides , ' thinks i , ' look at it once ; why , the end of it - the foot 
part - what a small sort of end it is ; whereas , if a broad footed UNK 
kicked me , there ' s a devilish broad insult . but this insult is UNK 
down to a point only . ' but now comes the greatest joke of the 
dream , flask . while i was battering away at the pyramid , a sort of 
UNK - haired old UNK , with a hump on his back , takes me by the 
shoulders , and UNK me round . ' what are you ' UNK ? ' says he . slid ! man , 
but i was frightened . such a UNK ! but , somehow , next moment i was over 
the fright . ' what am i about ? ' says i at last . ' and what business is 
that of yours , i should like to know , mr . UNK ? do you want a kick ? ' 
by the lord , flask , i had no sooner said that , than he turned round his 
stern to me , bent over , and dragging up a lot of UNK he had for a 
UNK - what do you think , i saw ? - why thunder alive , man , his stern 
was stuck full of UNK , with the points out . says i , on second 
thoughts , ' i guess i won ' t kick you , old fellow . ' ' wise stubb , ' said he , 
' wise stubb ; ' and kept muttering it all the time , a sort of eating of 
his own UNK like a chimney UNK . seeing he wasn ' t going to stop saying 
over his ' wise stubb , wise stubb , ' i thought i might as well fall to 
kicking the pyramid again . but i had only just lifted my foot for it , 
when he roared out , ' stop that kicking ! ' ' halloa , ' says i , ' what ' s 
the matter now , old fellow ? ' ' look ye here , ' says he ; ' let ' s argue 
the insult . captain ahab kicked ye , didn ' t he ? ' ' yes , he did , ' says 
i - ' right here it was . ' ' very good , ' says he - ' he used his ivory leg , 
didn ' t he ? ' ' yes , he did , ' says i . ' well then , ' says he , ' wise stubb , 
what have you to UNK of ? didn ' t he kick with right good will ? it 
wasn ' t a common pitch pine leg he kicked with , was it ? no , you were 
kicked by a great man , and with a beautiful ivory leg , stubb . it ' s an 
honour ; i consider it an honour . listen , wise stubb . in old england the 
greatest lords think it great glory to be UNK by a queen , and made 
UNK - knights of ; but , be your boast , stubb , that ye were kicked by 
old ahab , and made a wise man of . remember what i say ; be kicked by him ; 
account his kicks honours ; and on no account kick back ; for you can ' t 
help yourself , wise stubb . don ' t you see that pyramid ? ' with that , he 
all of a sudden seemed somehow , in some queer fashion , to swim off into 
the air . i UNK ; rolled over ; and there i was in my hammock ! now , what 
do you think of that dream , flask ? " 
" i don ' t know ; it seems a sort of foolish to me , UNK . ' " 
" may be ; may be . but it ' s made a wise man of me , flask . d ' ye see ahab 
standing there , sideways looking over the stern ? well , the best thing 
you can do , flask , is to let the old man alone ; never speak to him , 
whatever he says . halloa ! what ' s that he UNK ? hark ! " 
" mast - head , there ! look sharp , all of ye ! there are whales hereabouts ! 
" if ye see a white one , split your lungs for him ! 
" what do you think of that now , flask ? ain ' t there a small drop of 
something queer about that , eh ? a white whale - did ye mark that , man ? 
look ye - there ' s something special in the wind . stand by for it , flask . 
ahab has that that ' s bloody on his mind . but , UNK ; he comes this way . " 
chapter UNK . cetology . 
already we are boldly launched upon the deep ; but soon we shall be lost 
in its UNK , UNK immensities . ere that come to pass ; ere the 
pequod ' s weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of the 
leviathan ; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost 
indispensable to a thorough UNK understanding of the more 
special leviathanic UNK and allusions of all sorts which are to 
follow . 
it is some UNK exhibition of the whale in his broad UNK , 
that i would now fain put before you . yet is it no easy task . the 
classification of the UNK of a chaos , nothing less is here 
UNK . listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down . 
" no branch of UNK is so much involved as that which is entitled 
cetology , " says captain scoresby , a . d . 1820 . 
" it is not my intention , were it in my power , to enter into the 
inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into UNK and 
families . . . . utter confusion exists among the UNK of this animal " 
( sperm whale ) , says surgeon beale , a . d . 1839 . 
" UNK to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters . " 
" impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea . " " a field 
strewn with UNK . " " all these UNK indications but serve to 
UNK us naturalists . " 
thus speak of the whale , the great cuvier , and john hunter , and lesson , 
those lights of UNK and anatomy . nevertheless , though of real 
knowledge there be little , yet of books there are a plenty ; and so in 
some small degree , with cetology , or the science of whales . many are 
the men , small and great , old and new , landsmen and seamen , who have at 
large or in little , written of the whale . run over a few : - the authors 
of the bible ; aristotle ; pliny ; UNK ; sir UNK browne ; UNK ; 
ray ; linnaeus ; UNK ; UNK ; green ; UNK ; sibbald ; UNK ; 
UNK ; lacepede ; UNK ; UNK ; baron cuvier ; frederick cuvier ; 
john hunter ; owen ; scoresby ; beale ; bennett ; j . ross browne ; the 
author of UNK coffin ; UNK ; and the UNK . t . UNK . but to what 
ultimate UNK purpose all these have written , the above cited 
extracts will show . 
of the names in this list of whale authors , only those following owen 
ever saw living whales ; and but one of them was a real professional 
harpooneer and whaleman . i mean captain scoresby . on the separate 
subject of the greenland or right - whale , he is the best existing 
authority . but scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the great 
sperm whale , compared with which the greenland whale is almost unworthy 
mentioning . and here be it said , that the greenland whale is an UNK 
upon the throne of the seas . he is not even by any means the largest 
of the whales . yet , owing to the long priority of his UNK , and the 
profound ignorance which , till some seventy years back , invested the 
then fabulous or utterly unknown sperm - whale , and which ignorance to 
this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreats 
and whale - ports ; this usurpation has been every way complete . reference 
to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great UNK of past days , 
will satisfy you that the greenland whale , without one rival , was to 
them the UNK of the seas . but the time has at last come for a new 
UNK . this is UNK cross ; hear ye ! good people all , - the 
greenland whale is UNK , - the great sperm whale now UNK ! 
there are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living 
sperm whale before you , and at the same time , in the remotest degree 
succeed in the attempt . those books are beale ' s and bennett ' s ; both in 
their time surgeons to english south - sea whale - ships , and both exact and 
reliable men . the original matter touching the sperm whale to be found 
in their UNK is necessarily small ; but so far as it goes , it is of 
excellent quality , though mostly confined to scientific description . as 
yet , however , the sperm whale , scientific or poetic , lives not complete 
in any UNK . far above all other hunted whales , his is an 
unwritten life . 
now the various species of whales need some sort of popular 
comprehensive classification , if only an easy outline one for the 
present , hereafter to be filled in all its UNK by subsequent 
laborers . as no better man advances to take this matter in hand , i 
UNK offer my own poor endeavors . i promise nothing complete ; 
because any human thing supposed to be complete , must for that very 
reason infallibly be UNK . i shall not pretend to a minute anatomical 
description of the various species , or - in this place at least - to much 
of any description . my object here is simply to UNK the draught of a 
UNK of cetology . i am the architect , not the UNK . 
but it is a ponderous task ; no ordinary letter - UNK in the post - office 
is equal to it . to grope down into the bottom of the sea after them ; 
to have one ' s hands among the unspeakable foundations , ribs , and very 
UNK of the world ; this is a fearful thing . what am i that i should 
UNK to hook the nose of this leviathan ! the awful UNK in job 
might well appal me . will he ( the leviathan ) make a UNK with thee ? 
behold the hope of him is vain ! but i have swam through UNK and 
sailed through oceans ; i have had to do with whales with these visible 
hands ; i am in earnest ; and i will try . there are some preliminaries to 
settle . 
first : the uncertain , UNK condition of this science of cetology 
is in the very UNK UNK by the fact , that in some quarters it 
still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish . in his system of 
nature , a . d . UNK , linnaeus declares , " i hereby separate the whales from 
the fish . " but of my own knowledge , i know that down to the year UNK , 
sharks and shad , UNK and herring , against linnaeus ' s express UNK , 
were still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the 
leviathan . 
the grounds upon which linnaeus would fain have UNK the whales from 
the waters , he states as follows : " on account of their warm UNK 
heart , their lungs , their movable UNK , their hollow ears , UNK 
UNK UNK UNK UNK , " and finally , " ex UNK UNK UNK 
UNK . " i UNK all this to my friends UNK macey and charley 
coffin , of nantucket , both UNK of mine in a certain voyage , and 
they united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether 
UNK . charley profanely hinted they were humbug . 
be it known that , UNK all argument , i take the good old fashioned 
ground that the whale is a fish , and call upon holy jonah to back me . 
this UNK thing settled , the next point is , in what internal 
respect does the whale UNK from other fish . above , linnaeus has given 
you those items . but in brief , they are these : lungs and warm blood ; 
whereas , all other fish are UNK and cold blooded . 
next : how shall we UNK the whale , by his obvious externals , so as 
UNK to UNK him for all time to come ? to be short , then , a 
whale is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail . there you have 
him . however contracted , that definition is the result of expanded 
meditation . a walrus spouts much like a whale , but the walrus is not a 
fish , because he is UNK . but the last term of the definition is 
still more cogent , as coupled with the first . almost any one must have 
noticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat , but a 
vertical , or up - and - down tail . whereas , among spouting fish the tail , 
though it may be UNK shaped , invariably UNK a horizontal 
position . 
by the above definition of what a whale is , i do by no means UNK 
from the leviathanic UNK any sea creature hitherto UNK 
with the whale by the best informed nantucketers ; nor , on the other 
hand , UNK with it any fish hitherto UNK regarded as alien . * 
hence , all the smaller , spouting , and horizontal tailed fish must be 
included in this ground - plan of cetology . now , then , come the grand 
UNK of the entire whale host . 
* i am aware that down to the present time , the fish styled UNK and 
UNK ( pig - fish and sow - fish of the coffins of nantucket ) are included 
by many naturalists among the whales . but as these pig - fish are a noisy , 
contemptible set , mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers , and feeding on 
wet hay , and especially as they do not spout , i deny their UNK 
as whales ; and have presented them with their UNK to quit the 
kingdom of cetology . 
first : according to magnitude i divide the whales into three UNK 
books ( UNK into chapters ) , and these shall comprehend them all , 
both small and large . 
i . the folio whale ; ii . the octavo whale ; iii . the duodecimo whale . 
as the UNK of the folio i present the sperm whale ; of the octavo , the 
grampus ; of the duodecimo , the porpoise . 
UNK . among these i here include the following chapters : - i . the sperm 
whale ; ii . the right whale ; iii . the fin - back whale ; iv . the hump - backed 
whale ; v . the razor - back whale ; UNK . the sulphur - bottom whale . 
book i . ( folio ) , chapter i . ( sperm whale ) . - this whale , among the 
english of old vaguely known as the UNK whale , and the UNK 
whale , and the anvil headed whale , is the present cachalot of the 
french , and the UNK of the germans , and the UNK of the 
long words . he is , without doubt , the largest inhabitant of the globe ; 
the most UNK of all whales to encounter ; the most majestic in 
aspect ; and lastly , by far the most valuable in commerce ; he being 
the only creature from which that valuable substance , spermaceti , is 
obtained . all his peculiarities will , in many other places , be UNK 
upon . it is chiefly with his name that i now have to do . UNK 
considered , it is absurd . some centuries ago , when the sperm whale was 
almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality , and when his oil 
was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish ; in those days 
spermaceti , it would seem , was popularly supposed to be derived from a 
creature identical with the one then known in england as the greenland 
or right whale . it was the idea also , that this same spermaceti was that 
quickening humor of the greenland whale which the first UNK of 
the word literally UNK . in those times , also , spermaceti was 
exceedingly scarce , not being used for light , but only as an UNK 
and UNK . it was only to be had from the UNK as you nowadays 
buy an ounce of UNK . when , as i opine , in the course of time , the 
true nature of spermaceti became known , its original name was still 
retained by the UNK ; no doubt to UNK its value by a notion so 
strangely significant of its UNK . and so the appellation must at 
last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti 
was really derived . 
book i . ( folio ) , chapter ii . ( right whale ) . - in one respect this is the 
most venerable of the leviathans , being the one first regularly hunted 
by man . it yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen ; and 
the oil specially known as " whale oil , " an inferior article in commerce . 
among the fishermen , he is indiscriminately designated by all the 
following UNK : the whale ; the greenland whale ; the black whale ; 
the great whale ; the true whale ; the right whale . there is a deal of 
UNK concerning the identity of the species thus UNK 
UNK . what then is the whale , which i include in the second species 
of my UNK ? it is the great mysticetus of the english naturalists ; the 
greenland whale of the english whalemen ; the UNK UNK of the 
french whalemen ; the UNK UNK of the UNK . it is the whale 
which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the dutch and 
english in the arctic seas ; it is the whale which the american fishermen 
have long pursued in the indian ocean , on the UNK banks , on the nor ' 
west coast , and various other parts of the world , designated by them 
right whale cruising grounds . 
some pretend to see a difference between the greenland whale of the 
english and the right whale of the americans . but they precisely UNK 
in all their grand features ; nor has there yet been presented a single 
determinate fact upon which to ground a UNK distinction . it is by 
endless UNK based upon the most UNK UNK , that 
some UNK of natural history become so UNK intricate . the 
right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length , with reference 
to UNK the sperm whale . 
book i . ( folio ) , chapter iii . ( fin - back ) . - under this head i reckon 
a monster which , by the various names of fin - back , tall - spout , and 
long - john , has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale 
whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the 
atlantic , in the new york packet - UNK . in the length he UNK , and 
in his baleen , the fin - back resembles the right whale , but is of a less 
portly girth , and a lighter colour , approaching to olive . his great lips 
present a cable - like aspect , formed by the UNK , slanting folds 
of large wrinkles . his grand UNK feature , the fin , from which 
he UNK his name , is often a conspicuous object . this fin is some 
three or four feet long , growing UNK from the UNK part of the 
back , of an UNK shape , and with a very sharp pointed end . even if 
not the slightest other part of the creature be visible , this isolated 
fin will , at times , be seen plainly projecting from the surface . when 
the sea is moderately calm , and slightly marked with UNK UNK , 
and this UNK - like fin stands up and casts shadows upon the wrinkled 
surface , it may well be supposed that the watery circle surrounding it 
somewhat resembles a dial , with its style and UNK hour - lines UNK on 
it . on that UNK - dial the shadow often goes back . the fin - back is not 
gregarious . he seems a whale - UNK , as some men are man - UNK . very 
UNK ; always going solitary ; UNK rising to the surface in the 
remotest and most sullen waters ; his straight and single lofty jet 
rising like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain ; gifted with 
such wondrous power and velocity in swimming , as to defy all present 
pursuit from man ; this leviathan seems the UNK and unconquerable 
UNK of his race , bearing for his mark that style upon his back . from 
having the baleen in his mouth , the fin - back is sometimes included with 
the right whale , among a UNK species denominated whalebone whales , 
that is , whales with baleen . of these so called whalebone whales , there 
would seem to be several varieties , most of which , however , are little 
known . broad - UNK whales and beaked whales ; pike - headed whales ; UNK 
whales ; under - UNK whales and UNK whales , are the fishermen ' s 
names for a few sorts . 
in UNK with this appellative of " whalebone whales , " it is of 
great importance to mention , that however such a UNK may be 
convenient in UNK allusions to some kind of whales , yet it is 
in vain to attempt a clear classification of the leviathan , founded upon 
either his baleen , or hump , or fin , or teeth ; notwithstanding that those 
marked parts or features very UNK seem better adapted to afford 
the basis for a regular system of cetology than any other detached 
bodily distinctions , which the whale , in his kinds , presents . how 
then ? the baleen , hump , back - fin , and teeth ; these are things whose 
peculiarities are indiscriminately UNK among all sorts of whales , 
without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in other 
and more essential particulars . thus , the sperm whale and the humpbacked 
whale , each has a hump ; but there the similitude UNK . then , this same 
humpbacked whale and the greenland whale , each of these has baleen ; 
but there again the similitude UNK . and it is just the same with the 
other parts above mentioned . in various sorts of whales , they form such 
irregular combinations ; or , in the case of any one of them detached , 
such an irregular isolation ; as utterly to defy all general 
UNK formed upon such a basis . on this rock every one of the 
whale - naturalists has split . 
but it may possibly be conceived that , in the internal parts of the 
whale , in his anatomy - there , at least , we shall be able to hit the 
right classification . nay ; what thing , for example , is there in the 
greenland whale ' s anatomy more striking than his baleen ? yet we have 
seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to UNK the 
greenland whale . and if you descend into the bowels of the various 
leviathans , why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as 
UNK to the UNK as those external ones already UNK . 
what then remains ? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily , in 
their entire liberal volume , and boldly sort them that way . and this is 
the UNK system here UNK ; and it is the only one that can 
possibly succeed , for it alone is practicable . to proceed . 
book i . ( folio ) chapter iv . ( hump - back ) . - this whale is often seen on 
the northern american coast . he has been frequently captured there , and 
towed into harbor . he has a great pack on him like a peddler ; or you 
might call him the elephant and castle whale . at any rate , the popular 
name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him , since the sperm 
whale also has a hump though a smaller one . his oil is not very 
valuable . he has baleen . he is the most gamesome and light - hearted of 
all the whales , making more gay foam and white water generally than any 
other of them . 
book i . ( folio ) , chapter v . ( razor - back ) . - of this whale little is known 
but his name . i have seen him at a distance off cape horn . of a retiring 
nature , he eludes both hunters and philosophers . though no coward , he 
has never yet shown any part of him but his back , which rises in a long 
sharp ridge . let him go . i know little more of him , nor does anybody 
else . 
book i . ( folio ) , chapter UNK . ( sulphur - bottom ) . - another retiring 
gentleman , with a UNK belly , doubtless got by scraping along the 
UNK tiles in some of his profounder UNK . he is seldom seen ; 
at least i have never seen him except in the UNK southern seas , 
and then always at too great a distance to study his countenance . he is 
never chased ; he would run away with rope - walks of line . prodigies are 
told of him . adieu , sulphur bottom ! i can say nothing more that is true 
of ye , nor can the oldest nantucketer . 
thus ends book i . ( folio ) , and now begins book ii . ( octavo ) . 
UNK . * - these embrace the whales of UNK magnitude , among which 
present may be UNK : - i . , the grampus ; ii . , the black fish ; iii . , 
the narwhale ; iv . , the thrasher ; v . , the killer . 
* why this book of whales is not denominated the quarto is very plain . 
because , while the whales of this order , though smaller than those of 
the former order , nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them 
in figure , yet the UNK ' s quarto volume in its UNK form 
does not preserve the shape of the folio volume , but the octavo volume 
does . 
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter i . ( grampus ) . - though this fish , whose 
loud UNK breathing , or rather blowing , has furnished a proverb 
to landsmen , is so well known a UNK of the deep , yet is he not 
popularly UNK among whales . but UNK all the grand distinctive 
features of the leviathan , most naturalists have recognised him for one . 
he is of moderate octavo size , varying from fifteen to twenty - five feet 
in length , and of corresponding dimensions round the waist . he swims in 
herds ; he is never regularly hunted , though his oil is considerable in 
quantity , and pretty good for light . by some fishermen his approach is 
regarded as UNK of the advance of the great sperm whale . 
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter ii . ( black fish ) . - i give the popular 
fishermen ' s names for all these fish , for generally they are the best . 
where any name happens to be vague or UNK , i shall say so , 
and UNK another . i do so now , touching the black fish , so - called , 
because blackness is the rule among almost all whales . so , call him the 
hyena whale , if you please . his UNK is well known , and from the 
circumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards , he 
carries an everlasting UNK grin on his face . this whale 
averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length . he is found in almost 
all latitudes . he has a peculiar way of showing his UNK hooked fin 
in swimming , which looks something like a roman nose . when not more 
UNK employed , the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the hyena 
whale , to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic UNK - as 
some UNK UNK , in the absence of company , and quite alone by 
themselves , burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax . though their 
blubber is very thin , some of these whales will yield you upwards of 
thirty gallons of oil . 
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter iii . ( narwhale ) , that is , nostril 
whale . - another instance of a curiously named whale , so named i suppose 
from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose . the 
creature is some sixteen feet in length , while its horn averages five 
feet , though some exceed ten , and even attain to fifteen feet . strictly 
speaking , this horn is but a UNK tusk , growing out from the jaw 
in a line a little UNK from the horizontal . but it is only 
found on the sinister side , which has an ill effect , giving its owner 
something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left - handed man . what 
precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers , it would be hard to 
say . it does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword - fish and 
bill - fish ; though some sailors tell me that the narwhale employs it for 
a UNK in turning over the bottom of the sea for food . charley coffin 
said it was used for an ice - UNK ; for the narwhale , rising to the 
surface of the polar sea , and finding it sheeted with ice , thrusts his 
horn up , and so breaks through . but you cannot prove either of these 
surmises to be correct . my own opinion is , that however this one - UNK 
horn may really be used by the narwhale - however that may be - it would 
certainly be very convenient to him for a UNK in reading UNK . 
the narwhale i have heard called the tusked whale , the UNK whale , and 
the unicorn whale . he is certainly a curious example of the UNK 
to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature . from certain 
UNK old authors i have gathered that this same sea - unicorn ' s horn 
was in ancient days regarded as the great UNK against poison , 
and as such , UNK of it brought immense UNK . it was also 
UNK to a UNK UNK for UNK ladies , the same way that the 
horns of the male deer are manufactured into UNK . originally it 
was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity . black letter tells 
me that sir martin UNK on his return from that voyage , when 
queen UNK did UNK wave her jewelled hand to him from a window 
of UNK palace , as his bold ship sailed down the thames ; " when sir 
martin returned from that voyage , " saith black letter , " on UNK knees 
he presented to her highness a prodigious long horn of the narwhale , 
which for a long period after hung in the castle at windsor . " an UNK 
author UNK that the UNK of UNK , on UNK knees , did likewise 
present to her highness another horn , pertaining to a land UNK of the 
unicorn nature . 
the narwhale has a very UNK , UNK - like look , being of a 
milk - white ground colour , dotted with round and UNK spots of black . 
his oil is very superior , clear and fine ; but there is little of it , and 
he is seldom hunted . he is mostly found in the UNK seas . 
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter iv . ( killer ) . - of this whale little is 
precisely known to the nantucketer , and nothing at all to the UNK 
naturalist . from what i have seen of him at a distance , i should say 
that he was about the bigness of a grampus . he is very savage - a sort of 
UNK fish . he sometimes takes the great folio whales by the lip , and 
hangs there like a UNK , till the mighty brute is UNK to death . the 
killer is never hunted . i never heard what sort of oil he has . UNK 
might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale , on the ground 
of its UNK . for we are all UNK , on land and on sea ; 
UNK and sharks included . 
book ii . ( octavo ) , chapter v . ( thrasher ) . - this gentleman is famous for 
his tail , which he uses for a ferule in UNK his foes . he mounts 
the folio whale ' s back , and as he swims , he works his passage by 
flogging him ; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar 
process . still less is known of the thrasher than of the killer . both 
are UNK , even in the lawless seas . 
thus ends book ii . ( octavo ) , and begins book iii . ( duodecimo ) . 
duodecimoes . - these include the smaller whales . i . the huzza porpoise . 
ii . the algerine porpoise . iii . the mealy - mouthed porpoise . 
to those who have not chanced specially to study the subject , it may 
possibly seem strange , that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five 
feet should be UNK among whales - a word , which , in the popular 
sense , always conveys an idea of UNK . but the creatures set 
down above as duodecimoes are infallibly whales , by the terms of my 
definition of what a whale is - i . e . a spouting fish , with a horizontal 
tail . 
book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter UNK . ( huzza porpoise ) . - this is the 
common porpoise found almost all over the globe . the name is of my own 
UNK ; for there are more than one sort of porpoises , and something 
must be done to distinguish them . i call him thus , because he always 
swims in hilarious shoals , which upon the broad sea keep tossing 
themselves to heaven like caps in a fourth - of - july crowd . their 
appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner . full of fine 
spirits , they invariably come from the UNK billows to windward . they 
are the lads that always live before the wind . they are accounted a 
lucky UNK . if you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding 
these vivacious fish , then heaven help ye ; the spirit of godly 
UNK is not in ye . a well - fed , plump huzza porpoise will 
yield you one good gallon of good oil . but the fine and delicate fluid 
extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable . it is in request among 
UNK and UNK . sailors put it on their UNK . porpoise 
meat is good eating , you know . it may never have occurred to you that 
a porpoise spouts . indeed , his spout is so small that it is not very 
readily discernible . but the next time you have a chance , watch him ; and 
you will then see the great sperm whale himself in UNK . 
book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter ii . ( algerine porpoise ) . - a pirate . very 
savage . he is only found , i think , in the pacific . he is somewhat larger 
than the huzza porpoise , but much of the same general make . UNK him , 
and he will buckle to a shark . i have lowered for him many times , but 
never yet saw him captured . 
book iii . ( duodecimo ) , chapter iii . ( mealy - mouthed porpoise ) . - the 
largest kind of porpoise ; and only found in the pacific , so far as it is 
known . the only english name , by which he has hitherto been designated , 
is that of the fishers - right - whale porpoise , from the circumstance that 
he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that folio . in shape , he differs 
in some degree from the huzza porpoise , being of a less UNK and jolly 
girth ; indeed , he is of quite a neat and gentleman - like figure . he has 
no fins on his back ( most other porpoises have ) , he has a lovely tail , 
and sentimental indian eyes of a UNK hue . but his mealy - mouth UNK 
all . though his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable , 
yet a UNK line , distinct as the mark in a ship ' s hull , called 
the " bright waist , " that line UNK him from stem to stern , with two 
separate colours , black above and white below . the white comprises part 
of his head , and the whole of his mouth , which makes him look as if he 
had just escaped from a UNK visit to a meal - bag . a most mean and 
mealy aspect ! his oil is much like that of the common porpoise . 
beyond the duodecimo , this system does not proceed , inasmuch as 
the porpoise is the smallest of the whales . above , you have all the 
leviathans of note . but there are a UNK of uncertain , fugitive , 
half - fabulous whales , which , as an american whaleman , i know by 
reputation , but not personally . i shall UNK them by their 
fore - castle UNK ; for possibly such a list may be valuable to 
future UNK , who may complete what i have here but begun . if 
any of the following whales , shall hereafter be caught and marked , then 
he can readily be UNK into this system , according to his folio , 
octavo , or duodecimo magnitude : - the bottle - nose whale ; the junk whale ; 
the pudding - headed whale ; the cape whale ; the leading whale ; the cannon 
whale ; the UNK whale ; the UNK whale ; the elephant whale ; the 
iceberg whale ; the UNK whale ; the blue whale ; etc . from icelandic , 
dutch , and old english authorities , there might be quoted other UNK of 
uncertain whales , blessed with all manner of UNK names . but i UNK 
them as altogether UNK ; and can hardly help UNK them for 
mere sounds , full of UNK , but UNK nothing . 
finally : it was stated at the outset , that this system would not be 
here , and at once , UNK . you cannot but plainly see that i have 
kept my word . but i now leave my UNK system standing thus 
UNK , even as the great cathedral of cologne was left , with the 
crane still standing upon the top of the UNK tower . for small 
UNK may be finished by their first architects ; grand ones , true 
ones , ever leave the copestone to posterity . god keep me from ever 
UNK anything . this whole book is but a draught - nay , but the 
draught of a draught . oh , time , strength , cash , and patience ! 
chapter UNK . the specksynder . 
concerning the officers of the whale - craft , this seems as good a place 
as any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship - board , arising 
from the existence of the harpooneer class of officers , a class unknown 
of course in any other marine than the whale - fleet . 
the large importance attached to the harpooneer ' s vocation is evinced 
by the fact , that originally in the old dutch fishery , two centuries 
and more ago , the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in 
the person now called the captain , but was divided between him and an 
officer called the specksynder . literally this word means fat - UNK ; 
usage , however , in time made it UNK to chief harpooneer . in 
those days , the captain ' s authority was restricted to the UNK 
and general management of the vessel ; while over the whale - hunting 
department and all its UNK , the specksynder or chief harpooneer 
reigned supreme . in the british greenland fishery , under the UNK 
title of UNK , this old dutch official is still retained , but 
his former dignity is sadly UNK . at present he UNK simply 
as UNK harpooneer ; and as such , is but one of the captain ' s more 
inferior UNK . nevertheless , as upon the good conduct of the 
harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely depends , and since 
in the american fishery he is not only an important officer in the boat , 
but under certain circumstances ( night watches on a whaling ground ) the 
command of the ship ' s deck is also his ; therefore the grand political 
maxim of the sea UNK , that he should nominally live apart from 
the men before the mast , and be in some way distinguished as their 
professional superior ; though always , by them , familiarly regarded as 
their social equal . 
now , the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea , is 
this - the first lives aft , the last forward . hence , in whale - ships and 
merchantmen alike , the mates have their quarters with the captain ; and 
so , too , in most of the american whalers the harpooneers are lodged in 
the after part of the ship . that is to say , they take their meals in the 
captain ' s cabin , and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it . 
though the long period of a southern whaling voyage ( by far the UNK 
of all voyages now or ever made by man ) , the peculiar perils of it , and 
the UNK of interest UNK among a company , all of whom , high 
or low , depend for their profits , not upon fixed wages , but upon their 
common luck , together with their common vigilance , UNK , and 
hard work ; though all these things do in some cases tend to beget a less 
UNK UNK than in merchantmen generally ; yet , never mind 
how much like an old UNK family these whalemen may , in some 
primitive instances , live together ; for all that , the punctilious 
externals , at least , of the quarter - deck are seldom materially relaxed , 
and in no instance done away . indeed , many are the nantucket ships in 
which you will see the UNK UNK his quarter - deck with an elated 
grandeur not UNK in any military navy ; nay , UNK almost 
as much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple , and not the 
UNK of pilot - cloth . 
and though of all men the moody captain of the pequod was the least 
given to that sort of UNK UNK ; and though the only homage 
he ever UNK , was UNK , instantaneous obedience ; though he 
required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon 
the quarter - deck ; and though there were times when , owing to peculiar 
circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed , he 
addressed them in unusual terms , whether of condescension or in 
UNK , or otherwise ; yet even captain ahab was by no means 
UNK of the paramount forms and usages of the sea . 
nor , perhaps , will it fail to be eventually perceived , that behind those 
forms and usages , as it were , he sometimes UNK himself ; incidentally 
making use of them for other and more private ends than they were 
UNK intended to UNK . that certain sultanism of his brain , 
which had otherwise in a good degree remained UNK ; through 
those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an irresistible 
UNK . for be a man ' s intellectual superiority what it will , 
it can never assume the practical , UNK supremacy over other men , 
without the UNK of some sort of external arts and UNK , always , 
in themselves , more or less paltry and base . this it is , that for ever 
keeps god ' s true UNK of the empire from the world ' s UNK ; and 
leaves the highest honours that this air can give , to those men who 
become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice 
hidden handful of the divine inert , than through their UNK 
superiority over the dead level of the mass . such large virtue lurks 
in these small things when extreme political superstitions invest them , 
that in some royal instances even to idiot UNK they have imparted 
potency . but when , as in the case of UNK the czar , the ringed crown 
of UNK empire UNK an imperial brain ; then , the UNK 
herds UNK abased before the tremendous UNK . nor , will the 
tragic UNK who would UNK mortal indomitableness in its fullest 
sweep and direct swing , ever forget a hint , incidentally so important in 
his art , as the one now alluded to . 
but ahab , my captain , still moves before me in all his nantucket 
grimness and UNK ; and in this UNK touching emperors and 
kings , i must not UNK that i have only to do with a poor old 
whale - hunter like him ; and , therefore , all outward UNK trappings 
and housings are denied me . oh , ahab ! what shall be grand in thee , it 
must needs be plucked at from the skies , and dived for in the deep , and 
UNK in the UNK air ! 
chapter UNK . the cabin - table . 
it is noon ; and dough - boy , the steward , thrusting his pale UNK - of - bread 
face from the cabin - scuttle , UNK dinner to his lord and 
master ; who , sitting in the lee quarter - boat , has just been taking an 
observation of the sun ; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on the 
smooth , UNK - shaped tablet , reserved for that daily purpose on 
the upper part of his ivory leg . from his complete UNK to the 
tidings , you would think that moody ahab had not heard his UNK . but 
presently , catching hold of the UNK shrouds , he swings himself to 
the deck , and in an even , UNK voice , saying , " dinner , mr . 
starbuck , " disappears into the cabin . 
when the last echo of his sultan ' s step has died away , and starbuck , the 
first emir , has every reason to suppose that he is seated , then starbuck 
UNK from his quietude , takes a few turns along the planks , and , after 
a grave peep into the binnacle , says , with some touch of UNK , 
" dinner , mr . stubb , " and descends the scuttle . the second emir UNK 
about the rigging awhile , and then slightly shaking the main brace , to 
see whether it will be all right with that important rope , he likewise 
takes up the old burden , and with a rapid " dinner , mr . flask , " follows 
after his UNK . 
but the third emir , now seeing himself all alone on the quarter - deck , 
seems to feel relieved from some curious UNK ; for , UNK all 
sorts of knowing UNK in all sorts of directions , and kicking off his 
shoes , he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a UNK right 
over the grand turk ' s head ; and then , by a dexterous UNK , pitching 
his cap up into the UNK for a shelf , he goes down rollicking so 
far at least as he remains visible from the deck , UNK all other 
processions , by bringing up the rear with music . but ere stepping into 
the cabin doorway below , he pauses , ships a new face altogether , and , 
then , independent , hilarious little flask enters king ahab ' s presence , 
in the character of UNK , or the slave . 
it is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense 
UNK of sea - usages , that while in the open air of the deck 
some officers will , upon UNK , bear themselves boldly and 
defyingly enough towards their commander ; yet , ten to one , let those 
very officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that 
same commander ' s cabin , and straightway their UNK , not to say 
UNK and humble air towards him , as he sits at the head of 
the table ; this is marvellous , sometimes most comical . wherefore this 
difference ? a problem ? perhaps not . to have been belshazzar , king of 
UNK ; and to have been belshazzar , not UNK but UNK , 
therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur . but he 
who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit UNK over his own 
private dinner - table of invited guests , that man ' s UNK power 
and dominion of individual influence for the time ; that man ' s royalty of 
state UNK belshazzar ' s , for belshazzar was not the greatest . who 
has but once dined his friends , has tasted what it is to be UNK . it 
is a UNK of social UNK which there is no UNK . now , 
if to this consideration you UNK the official supremacy of a 
ship - master , then , by inference , you will derive the cause of that 
peculiarity of sea - life just mentioned . 
over his ivory - inlaid table , ahab presided like a mute , maned 
sea - lion on the white coral beach , surrounded by his UNK but still 
UNK UNK . in his own proper turn , each officer UNK to be 
served . they were as little children before ahab ; and yet , in ahab , 
there seemed not to lurk the smallest social UNK . with one mind , 
their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man ' s knife , as he carved 
the chief dish before him . i do not suppose that for the world they 
would have UNK that moment with the slightest observation , even 
upon so neutral a UNK as the weather . no ! and when reaching out his 
knife and fork , between which the UNK of beef was locked , ahab thereby 
UNK starbuck ' s plate towards him , the mate received his meat as 
though receiving alms ; and cut it UNK ; and a little started 
if , perchance , the knife grazed against the plate ; and chewed it 
UNK ; and swallowed it , not without UNK . for , like 
the coronation banquet at UNK , where the german emperor profoundly 
UNK with the seven imperial UNK , so these cabin meals were 
somehow solemn meals , eaten in awful silence ; and yet at table old ahab 
forbade not conversation ; only he himself was dumb . what a relief it was 
to choking stubb , when a rat made a sudden UNK in the hold below . and 
poor little flask , he was the UNK son , and little boy of this weary 
family party . his were the shinbones of the UNK beef ; his would have 
been the UNK . for flask to have presumed to help himself , this 
must have seemed to him tantamount to UNK in the first degree . had 
he helped himself at that table , doubtless , never more would he have 
been able to hold his head up in this honest world ; nevertheless , 
strange to say , ahab never forbade him . and had flask helped himself , 
the chances were ahab had never so much as noticed it . least of all , did 
flask presume to help himself to butter . whether he thought the owners 
of the ship denied it to him , on account of its UNK his clear , 
sunny complexion ; or whether he deemed that , on so long a voyage in such 
UNK waters , butter was at a premium , and therefore was not for 
him , a subaltern ; however it was , flask , alas ! was a UNK man ! 
another thing . flask was the last person down at the dinner , and flask 
is the first man up . consider ! for hereby flask ' s dinner was badly 
jammed in point of time . starbuck and stubb both had the start of him ; 
and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear . if stubb 
even , who is but a peg higher than flask , happens to have but a small 
appetite , and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast , then flask 
must bestir himself , he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day ; 
for it is against holy usage for stubb to UNK flask to the deck . 
therefore it was that flask once admitted in private , that ever since he 
had arisen to the dignity of an officer , from that moment he had never 
known what it was to be otherwise than hungry , more or less . for what 
he ate did not so much relieve his UNK , as keep it immortal in him . 
peace and satisfaction , thought flask , have for ever departed from 
my stomach . i am an officer ; but , how i wish i could fish a bit of 
old - fashioned beef in the forecastle , as i used to when i was before the 
mast . there ' s the UNK of promotion now ; there ' s the vanity of glory : 
there ' s the insanity of life ! besides , if it were so that any mere 
sailor of the pequod had a UNK against flask in flask ' s official 
capacity , all that sailor had to do , in order to obtain ample vengeance , 
was to go aft at dinner - time , and get a peep at flask through the cabin 
sky - light , sitting silly and UNK before awful ahab . 
now , ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first table 
in the pequod ' s cabin . after their departure , taking place in inverted 
order to their arrival , the canvas cloth was cleared , or rather was 
UNK to some hurried order by the pallid steward . and then the three 
harpooneers were bidden to the feast , they being its UNK UNK . 
they made a sort of temporary UNK ' hall of the high and mighty 
cabin . 
in strange contrast to the hardly tolerable UNK and nameless 
invisible UNK of the captain ' s table , was the entire care - free 
UNK and ease , the almost frantic democracy of those inferior fellows 
the harpooneers . while their UNK , the mates , seemed afraid of the 
sound of the hinges of their own jaws , the harpooneers chewed their food 
with such a relish that there was a report to it . they dined like lords ; 
they filled their bellies like indian ships all day loading with spices . 
such portentous appetites had queequeg and tashtego , that to fill out 
the UNK made by the previous repast , often the pale dough - boy was 
fain to bring on a great baron of salt - junk , seemingly quarried out of 
the solid ox . and if he were not lively about it , if he did not go with 
a nimble hop - UNK - and - jump , then tashtego had an UNK way of 
UNK him by darting a fork at his back , harpoon - wise . and once 
daggoo , seized with a sudden humor , assisted dough - boy ' s memory by 
snatching him up bodily , and thrusting his head into a great empty 
wooden UNK , while tashtego , knife in hand , began laying out the 
circle preliminary to UNK him . he was naturally a very nervous , 
shuddering sort of little fellow , this bread - faced steward ; the progeny 
of a bankrupt UNK and a hospital nurse . and what with the standing 
spectacle of the black terrific ahab , and the periodical tumultuous 
UNK of these three savages , dough - boy ' s whole life was one 
continual lip - quiver . commonly , after seeing the harpooneers furnished 
with all things they demanded , he would escape from their UNK into 
his little pantry adjoining , and fearfully peep out at them through the 
blinds of its door , till all was over . 
it was a sight to see queequeg seated over against tashtego , opposing 
his filed teeth to the indian ' s : crosswise to them , daggoo seated on the 
floor , for a bench would have brought his hearse - plumed head to the low 
UNK ; at every motion of his colossal limbs , making the low cabin 
UNK to shake , as when an african elephant goes passenger in a 
ship . but for all this , the great negro was UNK UNK , 
not to say dainty . it seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively 
small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality UNK through so broad , 
UNK , and superb a person . but , doubtless , this noble savage fed 
strong and UNK deep of the abounding element of air ; and through his 
UNK nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds . not by 
beef or by bread , are giants made or nourished . but queequeg , he had a 
mortal , barbaric UNK of the lip in eating - an ugly sound enough - so 
much so , that the trembling dough - boy almost looked to see whether 
any marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms . and when he would hear 
tashtego singing out for him to produce himself , that his bones might be 
picked , the simple - UNK steward all but shattered the UNK hanging 
round him in the pantry , by his sudden fits of the UNK . nor did the 
whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets , for their 
lances and other weapons ; and with which UNK , at dinner , they 
would ostentatiously UNK their knives ; that grating sound did not at 
all tend to UNK poor dough - boy . how could he forget that in his 
island days , queequeg , for one , must certainly have been guilty of some 
murderous , convivial UNK . alas ! dough - boy ! hard UNK the 
white UNK who waits upon cannibals . not a UNK should he carry on 
his arm , but a UNK . in good time , though , to his great delight , 
the three salt - sea warriors would rise and depart ; to his credulous , 
fable - UNK ears , all their martial bones UNK in them at every 
step , like UNK UNK in UNK . 
but , though these UNK dined in the cabin , and nominally lived 
there ; still , being anything but UNK in their habits , they were 
scarcely ever in it except at UNK , and just before sleeping - time , 
when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters . 
in this one matter , ahab seemed no UNK to most american whale 
captains , who , as a set , rather incline to the opinion that by rights 
the ship ' s cabin belongs to them ; and that it is by courtesy alone that 
anybody else is , at any time , permitted there . so that , in real truth , 
the mates and harpooneers of the pequod might more properly be said to 
have lived out of the cabin than in it . for when they did enter it , it 
was something as a street - door enters a house ; turning inwards for 
a moment , only to be turned out the next ; and , as a permanent thing , 
UNK in the open air . nor did they lose much hereby ; in the cabin 
was no companionship ; socially , ahab was UNK . though nominally 
included in the census of christendom , he was still an alien to it . he 
lived in the world , as the last of the UNK bears lived in settled 
missouri . and as when spring and summer had departed , that wild UNK of 
the woods , UNK himself in the hollow of a tree , lived out the winter 
there , sucking his own paws ; so , in his inclement , howling old age , 
ahab ' s soul , shut up in the UNK trunk of his body , there fed upon the 
sullen paws of its gloom ! 
chapter UNK . the mast - head . 
it was during the more pleasant weather , that in due UNK with the 
other seamen my first mast - head came round . 
in most american whalemen the mast - heads are manned almost 
simultaneously with the vessel ' s leaving her port ; even though she may 
have fifteen thousand miles , and more , to sail ere reaching her proper 
cruising ground . and if , after a three , four , or five years ' voyage 
she is drawing nigh home with anything empty in her - say , an empty vial 
even - then , her mast - heads are kept manned to the last ; and not till her 
UNK - poles sail in among the spires of the port , does she altogether 
relinquish the hope of UNK one whale more . 
now , as the business of standing mast - heads , ashore or afloat , is a very 
ancient and interesting one , let us in some measure expatiate here . 
i take it , that the UNK standers of mast - heads were the old 
egyptians ; because , in all my researches , i find none prior to them . 
for though their UNK , the UNK of UNK , must doubtless , by 
their tower , have intended to rear the loftiest mast - head in all asia , 
or africa either ; yet ( ere the final truck was put to it ) as that great 
stone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board , in the dread 
gale of god ' s wrath ; therefore , we cannot give these UNK UNK 
priority over the egyptians . and that the egyptians were a nation of 
mast - head standers , is an assertion based upon the general belief among 
UNK , that the first pyramids were founded for UNK 
purposes : a theory singularly UNK by the peculiar UNK - like 
formation of all four sides of those UNK ; whereby , with prodigious 
long UNK of their legs , those old UNK were wont to mount 
to the UNK , and sing out for new stars ; even as the look - outs of a 
modern ship sing out for a sail , or a whale just bearing in sight . in 
saint UNK , the famous christian hermit of old times , who built him 
a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of 
his life on its summit , hoisting his food from the ground with a 
tackle ; in him we have a remarkable instance of a UNK 
UNK - of - mast - heads ; who was not to be driven from his place by UNK 
or frosts , rain , hail , or sleet ; but UNK facing everything out to 
the last , literally died at his post . of modern standers - of - mast - heads 
we have but a lifeless set ; mere stone , iron , and bronze men ; who , 
though well capable of facing out a stiff gale , are still entirely 
incompetent to the business of singing out upon UNK any strange 
sight . there is napoleon ; who , upon the top of the column of UNK , 
stands with arms folded , some one hundred and fifty feet in the air ; 
careless , now , who rules the decks below ; whether louis UNK , louis 
UNK , or louis the devil . great washington , too , stands high aloft on 
his towering main - mast in UNK , and like one of hercules ' UNK , 
his column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals 
will go . admiral nelson , also , on a capstan of gun - metal , stands his 
mast - head in UNK square ; and ever when most obscured by that 
london smoke , token is yet given that a hidden hero is there ; for 
where there is smoke , must be fire . but neither great washington , nor 
napoleon , nor nelson , will answer a single hail from below , however 
madly invoked to befriend by their UNK the distracted decks 
upon which they gaze ; however it may be UNK , that their spirits 
penetrate through the thick haze of the future , and UNK what shoals 
and what rocks must be shunned . 
it may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast - head 
standers of the land with those of the sea ; but that in truth it is 
not so , is plainly evinced by an item for which obed macy , the sole 
historian of nantucket , stands UNK . the worthy obed tells us , 
that in the early times of the whale fishery , ere ships were regularly 
launched in pursuit of the game , the people of that island erected lofty 
spars along the sea - coast , to which the look - outs ascended by means 
of nailed UNK , something as fowls go UNK in a hen - house . a few 
years ago this same plan was UNK by the bay whalemen of new zealand , 
who , upon descrying the game , gave notice to the ready - manned boats nigh 
the beach . but this custom has now become UNK ; turn we then to the 
one proper mast - head , that of a whale - ship at sea . the three mast - heads 
are kept manned from sun - rise to sun - set ; the seamen taking their 
regular turns ( as at the helm ) , and UNK each other every two 
hours . in the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly pleasant 
the mast - head ; nay , to a dreamy UNK man it is delightful . there 
you stand , a hundred feet above the silent decks , striding along the 
deep , as if the masts were gigantic UNK , while beneath you and 
between your legs , as it were , swim the hugest monsters of the sea , even 
as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous UNK at old 
UNK . there you stand , lost in the infinite series of the sea , with 
nothing UNK but the waves . the UNK ship indolently rolls ; the 
drowsy UNK winds blow ; everything resolves you into UNK . for the 
most part , in this tropic whaling life , a sublime UNK invests 
you ; you hear no news ; read no UNK ; UNK with startling accounts 
of UNK never UNK you into unnecessary UNK ; you hear 
of no domestic UNK ; bankrupt UNK ; fall of stocks ; are 
never troubled with the thought of what you shall have for dinner - for 
all your meals for three years and more are snugly stowed in casks , and 
your bill of fare is UNK . 
in one of those southern UNK , on a long three or four years ' 
voyage , as often happens , the sum of the various hours you spend at the 
mast - head would amount to several entire months . and it is much to be 
UNK that the place to which you UNK so considerable a portion 
of the whole term of your natural life , should be so sadly UNK 
of anything approaching to a cosy UNK , or adapted to breed a 
comfortable UNK of feeling , such as UNK to a bed , a hammock , 
a hearse , a sentry box , a pulpit , a coach , or any other of those small 
and snug contrivances in which men temporarily UNK themselves . your 
most usual point of perch is the head of the t ' gallant - mast , where you 
stand upon two thin parallel sticks ( almost peculiar to whalemen ) called 
the t ' gallant cross - trees . here , tossed about by the sea , the UNK 
feels about as cosy as he would standing on a bull ' s horns . to be sure , 
in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you , in the shape of 
a watch - coat ; but properly speaking the thickest watch - coat is no more 
of a house than the UNK body ; for as the soul is glued inside of its 
fleshy UNK , and cannot freely move about in it , nor even move out 
of it , without running great risk of perishing ( like an ignorant UNK 
crossing the snowy alps in winter ) ; so a watch - coat is not so much of 
a house as it is a mere envelope , or additional skin UNK you . you 
cannot put a shelf or chest of drawers in your body , and no more can you 
make a convenient closet of your watch - coat . 
concerning all this , it is much to be UNK that the mast - heads of a 
southern whale ship are UNK with those UNK little tents 
or pulpits , called crow ' s - UNK , in which the look - outs of a greenland 
whaler are UNK from the inclement weather of the frozen seas . in 
the fireside narrative of captain sleet , entitled " a voyage among the 
icebergs , in quest of the greenland whale , and incidentally for the 
re - discovery of the lost icelandic colonies of old greenland ; " in 
this admirable volume , all standers of mast - heads are furnished with 
a UNK UNK account of the then recently invented 
crow ' s - nest of the UNK , which was the name of captain sleet ' s good 
craft . he called it the sleet ' s crow ' s - nest , in honour of himself ; he 
being the original UNK and UNK , and free from all ridiculous 
false delicacy , and holding that if we call our own children after our 
own names ( we fathers being the original UNK and UNK ) , so 
likewise should we UNK after ourselves any other UNK we 
may beget . in shape , the sleet ' s crow ' s - nest is something like a large 
tierce or pipe ; it is open above , however , where it is furnished with 
a movable side - UNK to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale . 
being fixed on the summit of the mast , you UNK into it through a 
little trap - hatch in the bottom . on the after side , or side next the 
stern of the ship , is a comfortable seat , with a locker underneath for 
UNK , comforters , and coats . in front is a leather rack , in which 
to keep your speaking trumpet , pipe , telescope , and other nautical 
conveniences . when captain sleet in person stood his mast - head in this 
crow ' s - nest of his , he tells us that he always had a rifle with him 
( also fixed in the rack ) , together with a powder flask and shot , for 
the purpose of UNK off the UNK UNK , or UNK sea UNK 
UNK those waters ; for you cannot successfully shoot at them from 
the deck owing to the resistance of the water , but to shoot down upon 
them is a very different thing . now , it was plainly a labor of love 
for captain sleet to describe , as he does , all the little detailed 
conveniences of his crow ' s - nest ; but though he so UNK upon many 
of these , and though he treats us to a very scientific account of his 
UNK in this crow ' s - nest , with a small compass he kept there for 
the purpose of UNK the errors resulting from what is called 
the " local UNK " of all binnacle UNK ; an error UNK to 
the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the ship ' s planks , and in the 
UNK ' s case , perhaps , to there having been so many broken - down 
blacksmiths among her crew ; i say , that though the captain is very 
UNK and scientific here , yet , for all his learned " binnacle 
UNK , " " UNK compass observations , " and " UNK errors , " 
he knows very well , captain sleet , that he was not so much immersed 
in those profound magnetic UNK , as to fail being attracted 
occasionally towards that well replenished little case - bottle , so nicely 
tucked in on one side of his crow ' s nest , within easy reach of his hand . 
though , upon the whole , i greatly admire and even love the brave , the 
honest , and learned captain ; yet i take it very ill of him that he 
should so utterly UNK that case - bottle , seeing what a faithful friend 
and UNK it must have been , while with UNK fingers and hooded 
head he was studying the UNK aloft there in that bird ' s nest 
within three or four UNK of the pole . 
but if we southern whale - fishers are not so snugly UNK aloft as 
captain sleet and his UNK were ; yet that UNK is 
greatly counter - balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of those 
seductive seas in which we south fishers mostly float . for one , i used 
to UNK up the rigging very leisurely , resting in the top to have a 
chat with queequeg , or any one else off duty whom i might find there ; 
then ascending a little way further , and throwing a lazy leg over the 
top - sail yard , take a preliminary view of the watery pastures , and so at 
last mount to my ultimate UNK . 
let me make a clean breast of it here , and frankly admit that i kept but 
sorry guard . with the problem of the universe revolving in me , how 
could i - being left completely to myself at such a thought - UNK 
altitude - how could i but lightly hold my UNK to observe all 
whale - ships ' standing orders , " keep your weather eye open , and sing out 
every time . " 
and let me in this place UNK UNK you , ye ship - owners of 
nantucket ! beware of UNK in your vigilant fisheries any lad with 
lean brow and hollow eye ; given to UNK UNK ; and who 
offers to ship with the UNK instead of bowditch in his head . beware 
of such an one , i say ; your whales must be seen before they can be 
killed ; and this sunken - eyed young UNK will tow you ten wakes 
round the world , and never make you one pint of sperm the UNK . nor 
are these UNK at all UNK . for nowadays , the whale - fishery 
furnishes an UNK for many romantic , melancholy , and absent - minded 
young men , UNK with the UNK cares of earth , and seeking 
sentiment in tar and blubber . UNK UNK not UNK UNK 
himself upon the mast - head of some luckless disappointed whale - ship , and 
in moody phrase UNK : - 
" roll on , thou deep and dark blue ocean , roll ! ten thousand 
blubber - hunters sweep over thee in vain . " 
very often do the captains of such ships take those absent - minded 
young philosophers to task , UNK them with not feeling sufficient 
" interest " in the voyage ; half - hinting that they are so hopelessly lost 
to all honourable ambition , as that in their secret souls they would 
rather not see whales than otherwise . but all in vain ; those young 
UNK have a notion that their vision is imperfect ; they are 
short - sighted ; what use , then , to strain the visual UNK ? they have 
left their UNK - glasses at home . 
" why , thou monkey , " said a harpooneer to one of these lads , " we ' ve been 
cruising now hard upon three years , and thou hast not raised a whale 
yet . whales are scarce as hen ' s teeth whenever thou art up here . " 
perhaps they were ; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in 
the far horizon ; but UNK into such an UNK - like UNK of 
vacant , unconscious reverie is this absent - minded youth by the blending 
cadence of waves with thoughts , that at last he loses his identity ; 
takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep , 
blue , bottomless soul , pervading mankind and nature ; and every 
strange , half - seen , gliding , beautiful thing that eludes him ; every 
dimly - discovered , uprising fin of some undiscernible form , seems to him 
the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by 
continually flitting through it . in this enchanted mood , thy spirit UNK 
away to whence it came ; becomes UNK through time and space ; like 
UNK ' s ( UNK UNK ) sprinkled pantheistic ashes , forming at last a part of every 
shore the round globe over . 
there is no life in thee , now , except that rocking life imparted by a 
gently rolling ship ; by her , borrowed from the sea ; by the sea , from 
the inscrutable tides of god . but while this sleep , this dream is on ye , 
move your foot or hand an inch ; slip your hold at all ; and your identity 
comes back in horror . over UNK UNK you UNK . and perhaps , 
at mid - day , in the UNK weather , with one half - UNK UNK you 
drop through that transparent air into the summer sea , no more to rise 
for ever . heed it well , ye UNK ! 
chapter UNK . the quarter - deck . 
( enter ahab : then , all ) 
it was not a great while after the affair of the pipe , that one 
morning shortly after breakfast , ahab , as was his wont , ascended the 
cabin - gangway to the deck . there most sea - captains usually walk at that 
hour , as country gentlemen , after the same meal , take a few turns in the 
garden . 
soon his steady , ivory UNK was heard , as to and fro he paced his old 
rounds , upon planks so familiar to his tread , that they were all over 
dented , like geological stones , with the peculiar mark of his walk . did 
you UNK gaze , too , upon that ribbed and dented brow ; there also , 
you would see still stranger foot - prints - the foot - prints of his one 
UNK , ever - pacing thought . 
but on the occasion in question , those dents looked deeper , even as 
his nervous step that morning left a deeper mark . and , so full of his 
thought was ahab , that at every uniform turn that he made , now at the 
main - mast and now at the binnacle , you could almost see that thought 
turn in him as he turned , and pace in him as he paced ; so completely 
UNK him , indeed , that it all but seemed the inward mould of every 
outer movement . 
" d ' ye mark him , flask ? " whispered stubb ; " the UNK that ' s in him UNK 
the shell . ' UNK soon be out . " 
the hours wore on ; - ahab now shut up within his cabin ; anon , pacing the 
deck , with the same intense UNK of purpose in his aspect . 
it drew near the close of day . suddenly he came to a UNK by the 
bulwarks , and inserting his bone leg into the UNK - hole there , and with 
one hand grasping a shroud , he ordered starbuck to send everybody aft . 
" sir ! " said the mate , astonished at an order seldom or never given on 
ship - board except in some extraordinary case . 
" send everybody aft , " repeated ahab . " mast - heads , there ! come down ! " 
when the entire ship ' s company were assembled , and with curious and not 
wholly UNK faces , were eyeing him , for he looked not unlike 
the weather horizon when a storm is coming up , ahab , after rapidly 
glancing over the bulwarks , and then darting his eyes among the crew , 
started from his UNK ; and as though not a soul were nigh him 
resumed his heavy turns upon the deck . with bent head and half - slouched 
hat he continued to pace , unmindful of the wondering whispering among 
the men ; till stubb UNK whispered to flask , that ahab must have 
summoned them there for the purpose of UNK a UNK feat . but 
this did not last long . vehemently pausing , he cried : - 
" what do ye do when ye see a whale , men ? " 
" sing out for him ! " was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of UNK 
voices . 
" good ! " cried ahab , with a wild UNK in his tones ; observing the 
hearty UNK into which his UNK question had so UNK 
thrown them . 
" and what do ye next , men ? " 
" lower away , and after him ! " 
" and what tune is it ye pull to , men ? " 
" a dead whale or a stove boat ! " 
more and more strangely and fiercely glad and UNK , grew the 
countenance of the old man at every shout ; while the mariners began 
to gaze curiously at each other , as if UNK how it was that they 
themselves became so excited at such seemingly UNK questions . 
but , they were all eagerness again , as ahab , now half - revolving in his 
pivot - hole , with one hand reaching high up a shroud , and tightly , almost 
convulsively grasping it , addressed them thus : - 
" all ye mast - headers have before now heard me give orders about a white 
whale . look ye ! d ' ye see this spanish ounce of gold ? " - holding up a 
broad bright coin to the sun - " it is a sixteen UNK piece , men . d ' ye 
see it ? mr . starbuck , hand me yon top - maul . " 
while the mate was getting the hammer , ahab , without speaking , was 
slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket , as if 
to heighten its lustre , and without using any words was meanwhile 
lowly humming to himself , producing a sound so strangely muffled and 
UNK that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his 
vitality in him . 
receiving the top - maul from starbuck , he advanced towards the main - mast 
with the hammer uplifted in one hand , exhibiting the gold with the 
other , and with a high raised voice UNK : " whosoever of ye 
raises me a white - headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw ; 
whosoever of ye raises me that white - headed whale , with three holes 
UNK in his starboard fluke - look ye , whosoever of ye raises me 
that same white whale , he shall have this gold ounce , my boys ! " 
" huzza ! huzza ! " cried the seamen , as with swinging tarpaulins they 
hailed the act of UNK the gold to the mast . 
" it ' s a white whale , i say , " resumed ahab , as he threw down the UNK : 
" a white whale . skin your eyes for him , men ; look sharp for white water ; 
if ye see but a bubble , sing out . " 
all this while tashtego , daggoo , and queequeg had looked on with even 
more intense interest and surprise than the rest , and at the mention 
of the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was 
separately touched by some specific UNK . 
" captain ahab , " said tashtego , " that white whale must be the same that 
some call moby dick . " 
" moby dick ? " shouted ahab . " do ye know the white whale then , tash ? " 
" does he fan - tail a little curious , sir , before he goes down ? " said the 
gay - header deliberately . 
" and has he a curious spout , too , " said daggoo , " very UNK , even for a 
UNK , and mighty quick , captain ahab ? " 
" and he have one , two , three - oh ! good many iron in him hide , too , 
captain , " cried queequeg UNK , " all UNK - UNK be - UNK , like 
him - him - " faltering hard for a word , and screwing his hand round and 
round as though UNK a bottle - " like him - him - " 
" corkscrew ! " cried ahab , " aye , queequeg , the harpoons lie all twisted 
and wrenched in him ; aye , daggoo , his spout is a big one , like a whole 
shock of wheat , and white as a pile of our nantucket wool after the 
great annual sheep - UNK ; aye , tashtego , and he fan - tails like a 
split jib in a squall . death and devils ! men , it is moby dick ye have 
seen - moby dick - moby dick ! " 
" captain ahab , " said starbuck , who , with stubb and flask , had thus far 
been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise , but at last seemed 
struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder . " captain 
ahab , i have heard of moby dick - but it was not moby dick that took off 
thy leg ? " 
" who told thee that ? " cried ahab ; then pausing , " aye , starbuck ; aye , my 
hearties all round ; it was moby dick that dismasted me ; moby dick that 
brought me to this dead stump i stand on now . aye , aye , " he shouted with 
a terrific , loud , animal sob , like that of a heart - stricken moose ; 
" aye , aye ! it was that accursed white whale that UNK me ; made a poor 
UNK lubber of me for ever and a day ! " then tossing both arms , with 
measureless UNK he shouted out : " aye , aye ! and i ' ll chase him 
round good hope , and round the horn , and round the UNK maelstrom , and 
round perdition ' s flames before i give him up . and this is what ye have 
shipped for , men ! to chase that white whale on both sides of land , and 
over all sides of earth , till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out . 
what say ye , men , will ye splice hands on it , now ? i think ye do look 
brave . " 
" aye , aye ! " shouted the harpooneers and seamen , running closer to the 
excited old man : " a sharp eye for the white whale ; a sharp lance for 
moby dick ! " 
" god bless ye , " he seemed to half sob and half shout . " god bless ye , 
men . steward ! go draw the great measure of grog . but what ' s this long 
face about , mr . starbuck ; wilt thou not chase the white whale ? art not 
game for moby dick ? " 
" i am game for his crooked jaw , and for the jaws of death too , captain 
ahab , if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow ; but i 
came here to hunt whales , not my commander ' s vengeance . how many barrels 
will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it , captain ahab ? it 
will not fetch thee much in our nantucket market . " 
" nantucket market ! hoot ! but come closer , starbuck ; thou UNK 
a little lower layer . if money ' s to be the UNK , man , and the 
UNK have UNK their great counting - house the globe , by 
UNK it with UNK , one to every three parts of an inch ; then , let 
me tell thee , that my vengeance will fetch a great premium here ! " 
" he UNK his chest , " whispered stubb , " what ' s that for ? methinks it 
rings most vast , but hollow . " 
" vengeance on a dumb brute ! " cried starbuck , " that simply smote thee 
from UNK instinct ! madness ! to be enraged with a dumb thing , 
captain ahab , seems UNK . " 
" hark ye yet again - the little lower layer . all visible objects , man , 
are but as UNK UNK . but in each event - in the living act , the 
UNK deed - there , some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth 
the UNK of its features from behind the unreasoning mask . if man 
will strike , strike through the mask ! how can the prisoner reach outside 
except by thrusting through the wall ? to me , the white whale is that 
wall , UNK near to me . sometimes i think there ' s naught beyond . but 
' tis enough . he UNK me ; he heaps me ; i see in him outrageous strength , 
with an inscrutable malice UNK it . that inscrutable thing is 
chiefly what i hate ; and be the white whale agent , or be the white whale 
principal , i will UNK that hate upon him . talk not to me of UNK , 
man ; i ' d strike the sun if it insulted me . for could the sun do that , 
then could i do the other ; since there is ever a sort of fair play 
herein , UNK presiding over all UNK . but not my master , man , 
is even that fair play . who ' s over me ? truth hath no UNK . take off 
thine eye ! more intolerable than fiends ' UNK is a UNK 
stare ! so , so ; thou UNK and UNK ; my heat has melted thee to 
anger - glow . but look ye , starbuck , what is said in heat , that thing 
UNK itself . there are men from whom warm words are small UNK . i 
meant not to UNK thee . let it go . look ! see yonder turkish cheeks of 
spotted UNK - living , breathing pictures painted by the sun . the pagan 
UNK - the UNK and UNK things , that live ; and seek , 
and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel ! the crew , man , the 
crew ! are they not one and all with ahab , in this matter of the whale ? 
see stubb ! he laughs ! see yonder chilian ! he UNK to think of it . 
stand up amid the general hurricane , thy one UNK sapling cannot , 
starbuck ! and what is it ? reckon it . ' tis but to help strike a fin ; no 
wondrous feat for starbuck . what is it more ? from this one poor hunt , 
then , the best lance out of all nantucket , surely he will not hang back , 
when every foremast - hand has UNK a whetstone ? ah ! UNK 
seize thee ; i see ! the billow UNK thee ! speak , but speak ! - aye , aye ! 
thy silence , then , that voices thee . ( aside ) something shot from my 
UNK nostrils , he has inhaled it in his lungs . starbuck now is mine ; 
cannot UNK me now , without rebellion . " 
" god keep me ! - keep us all ! " murmured starbuck , lowly . 
but in his joy at the enchanted , UNK UNK of the mate , ahab 
did not hear his foreboding UNK ; nor yet the low laugh from the 
hold ; nor yet the UNK UNK of the winds in the cordage ; 
nor yet the hollow UNK of the sails against the masts , as for a moment 
their hearts sank in . for again starbuck ' s UNK eyes lighted up with 
the UNK of life ; the subterranean laugh died away ; the winds 
blew on ; the sails filled out ; the ship heaved and rolled as before . ah , 
ye UNK and warnings ! why stay ye not when ye come ? but 
rather are ye UNK than warnings , ye shadows ! yet not so much 
UNK from without , as UNK of the foregoing things 
within . for with little external to UNK us , the innermost 
necessities in our being , these still drive us on . 
" the measure ! the measure ! " cried ahab . 
receiving the brimming pewter , and turning to the harpooneers , he 
ordered them to produce their weapons . then ranging them before him near 
the capstan , with their harpoons in their hands , while his three mates 
stood at his side with their lances , and the rest of the ship ' s company 
formed a circle round the UNK ; he stood for an instant UNK 
eyeing every man of his crew . but those wild eyes met his , as the 
bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of their leader , ere 
he UNK on at their head in the trail of the UNK ; but , alas ! only to 
fall into the hidden UNK of the indian . 
" drink and pass ! " he cried , UNK the heavy charged UNK to the 
nearest seaman . " the crew alone now drink . round with it , round ! short 
draughts - long swallows , men ; ' tis hot as satan ' s UNK . so , so ; it 
goes round UNK . it UNK in ye ; forks out at the 
serpent - snapping eye . well done ; almost UNK . that way it went , this 
way it comes . hand it me - here ' s a hollow ! men , ye seem the years ; so 
brimming life is UNK and gone . steward , refill ! 
" attend now , my UNK . i have UNK ye all round this capstan ; and 
ye mates , flank me with your lances ; and ye harpooneers , stand there 
with your irons ; and ye , stout mariners , ring me in , that i may in some 
sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me . o men , you 
will yet see that - ha ! boy , come back ? bad UNK come not sooner . hand 
it me . why , now , this pewter had run brimming again , were ' t not thou st . 
UNK ' UNK - away , thou UNK ! 
" advance , ye mates ! cross your lances full before me . well done ! let 
me touch the axis . " so saying , with extended arm , he grasped the 
three level , radiating lances at their crossed centre ; while so doing , 
suddenly and nervously twitched them ; meanwhile , glancing intently from 
starbuck to stubb ; from stubb to flask . it seemed as though , by some 
nameless , interior volition , he would fain have UNK into them the 
same fiery emotion accumulated within the leyden jar of his own magnetic 
life . the three mates UNK before his strong , UNK , and mystic 
aspect . stubb and flask looked sideways from him ; the honest eye of 
starbuck fell downright . 
" in vain ! " cried ahab ; " but , maybe , ' tis well . for did ye three but 
once take the full - forced shock , then mine own UNK thing , that had 
perhaps UNK from out me . perchance , too , it would have dropped ye 
dead . perchance ye need it not . down lances ! and now , ye mates , i do 
UNK ye three UNK to my three pagan UNK there - yon three 
most honourable gentlemen and UNK , my valiant harpooneers . disdain 
the task ? what , when the great UNK UNK the feet of beggars , using 
his UNK for UNK ? oh , my sweet UNK ! your own condescension , that 
shall bend ye to it . i do not order ye ; ye will it . cut your seizings 
and draw the poles , ye harpooneers ! " 
silently obeying the order , the three harpooneers now stood with the 
detached iron part of their harpoons , some three feet long , held , barbs 
up , before him . 
" stab me not with that keen steel ! cant them ; cant them over ! know ye 
not the goblet end ? turn up the socket ! so , so ; now , ye cup - bearers , 
advance . the irons ! take them ; hold them while i fill ! " forthwith , 
slowly going from one officer to the other , he brimmed the harpoon 
UNK with the fiery waters from the pewter . 
" now , three to three , ye stand . UNK the murderous UNK ! bestow 
them , ye who are now made parties to this UNK UNK . ha ! 
starbuck ! but the deed is done ! yon UNK sun now waits to sit upon 
it . drink , ye harpooneers ! drink and swear , ye men that man the UNK 
UNK ' s bow - death to moby dick ! god hunt us all , if we do not hunt 
moby dick to his death ! " the long , barbed steel goblets were lifted ; 
and to cries and UNK against the white whale , the spirits were 
simultaneously UNK down with a hiss . starbuck UNK , and turned , and 
shivered . once more , and finally , the replenished pewter went the rounds 
among the frantic crew ; when , waving his free hand to them , they all 
UNK ; and ahab retired within his cabin . 
chapter UNK . sunset . 
the cabin ; by the stern windows ; ahab sitting alone , and gazing out . 
i leave a white and turbid wake ; pale waters , UNK cheeks , where ' er i 
sail . the UNK billows sidelong swell to UNK my track ; let them ; 
but first i pass . 
yonder , by ever - brimming goblet ' s UNK , the warm waves UNK like wine . 
the gold brow UNK the blue . the diver sun - slow dived from noon - goes 
down ; my soul mounts up ! she UNK with her endless hill . is , then , 
the crown too heavy that i wear ? this iron crown of UNK . yet is 
it bright with many a UNK ; i the UNK , see not its far UNK ; but 
darkly feel that i wear that , that UNK UNK . ' tis iron - that 
i know - not gold . ' tis split , too - that i feel ; the UNK edge UNK 
me so , my brain seems to beat against the solid metal ; aye , steel skull , 
mine ; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain - battering fight ! 
dry heat upon my brow ? oh ! time was , when as the sunrise UNK UNK 
me , so the sunset soothed . no more . this lovely light , it lights not me ; 
all UNK is anguish to me , since i can UNK ' er enjoy . gifted with 
the high UNK , i lack the low , UNK power ; damned , most UNK 
and most UNK ! damned in the midst of paradise ! good night - good 
night ! ( waving his hand , he moves from the window . ) 
' twas not so hard a task . i thought to find one stubborn , at the least ; 
but my one UNK circle fits into all their various wheels , and they 
revolve . or , if you will , like so many ant - hills of powder , they all 
stand before me ; and i their match . oh , hard ! that to fire others , the 
match itself must needs be UNK ! what i ' ve dared , i ' ve willed ; and 
what i ' ve willed , i ' ll do ! they think me mad - starbuck does ; but i ' m 
demoniac , i am madness maddened ! that wild madness that ' s only calm 
to comprehend itself ! the prophecy was that i should be UNK ; 
and - aye ! i lost this leg . i now prophesy that i will UNK my 
UNK . now , then , be the prophet and the UNK one . that ' s 
more than ye , ye great gods , ever were . i laugh and hoot at ye , ye 
UNK - players , ye UNK , ye deaf UNK and UNK UNK ! 
i will not say as schoolboys do to UNK - take some one of your own 
size ; don ' t UNK me ! no , ye ' ve knocked me down , and i am up again ; but 
ye have run and hidden . come forth from behind your cotton UNK ! i have 
no long gun to reach ye . come , ahab ' s compliments to ye ; come and see 
if ye can swerve me . swerve me ? ye cannot swerve me , else ye swerve 
yourselves ! man has ye there . swerve me ? the path to my fixed purpose is 
laid with iron UNK , whereon my soul is UNK to run . over unsounded 
gorges , through the UNK hearts of mountains , under UNK ' beds , 
unerringly i rush ! naught ' s an UNK , naught ' s an angle to the iron 
way ! 
chapter UNK . UNK . 
by the mainmast ; starbuck leaning against it . 
my soul is more than UNK ; she ' s UNK ; and by a madman ! 
insufferable sting , that sanity should ground arms on such a field ! but 
he UNK deep down , and blasted all my reason out of me ! i think i see 
his impious end ; but feel that i must help him to it . will i , UNK i , 
the ineffable thing has tied me to him ; UNK me with a cable i have no 
knife to cut . horrible old man ! who ' s over him , he cries ; - aye , he would 
be a UNK to all above ; look , how he lords it over all below ! oh ! i 
plainly see my miserable office , - to obey , UNK ; and worse yet , 
to hate with touch of pity ! for in his eyes i read some UNK woe would 
UNK me up , had i it . yet is there hope . time and tide flow wide . 
the hated whale has the round watery world to swim in , as the small 
gold - fish has its glassy globe . his heaven - insulting purpose , god may 
UNK aside . i would up heart , were it not like lead . but my whole 
clock ' s run down ; my heart the all - UNK weight , i have no key to 
lift again . 
UNK burst of revelry from the forecastle . ] 
oh , god ! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human 
mothers in them ! UNK somewhere by the sharkish sea . the white whale 
is their UNK . hark ! the infernal orgies ! that revelry is forward ! 
mark the unfaltering silence aft ! methinks it pictures life . foremost 
through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay , UNK , bantering 
bow , but only to drag dark ahab after it , where he UNK within his 
UNK cabin , builded over the dead water of the wake , and further 
on , hunted by its UNK UNK . the long howl UNK me through ! 
peace ! ye UNK , and set the watch ! oh , life ! ' tis in an hour like 
this , with soul beat down and held to knowledge , - as wild , untutored 
things are forced to feed - oh , life ! ' tis now that i do feel the latent 
horror in thee ! but ' tis not me ! that horror ' s out of me ! and with the 
soft feeling of the human in me , yet will i try to fight ye , ye grim , 
phantom UNK ! stand by me , hold me , bind me , o ye blessed influences ! 
chapter UNK . first night watch . 
fore - top . 
( stubb UNK , and mending a brace . ) 
ha ! ha ! ha ! ha ! hem ! clear my throat ! - i ' ve been thinking over it 
ever since , and that ha , ha ' s the final consequence . why so ? because a 
laugh ' s the wisest , easiest answer to all that ' s queer ; and come what 
will , one comfort ' s always left - that UNK comfort is , it ' s all 
predestinated . i heard not all his talk with starbuck ; but to my poor 
eye starbuck then looked something as i the other evening felt . be sure 
the old mogul has fixed him , too . i UNK it , knew it ; had had the 
gift , might readily have UNK it - for when i clapped my eye upon 
his skull i saw it . well , stubb , wise stubb - that ' s my title - well , 
stubb , what of it , stubb ? here ' s a carcase . i know not all that may be 
coming , but be it what it will , i ' ll go to it laughing . such a waggish 
UNK as lurks in all your UNK ! i feel funny . fa , la ! lirra , 
UNK ! what ' s my juicy little pear at home doing now ? crying its eyes 
out ? - giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers , i dare say , gay as 
a frigate ' s UNK , and so am i - fa , la ! lirra , UNK ! oh - 
we ' ll drink to - night with hearts as light , to love , as gay and fleeting 
as bubbles that swim , on the UNK ' s brim , and break on the lips while 
meeting . 
a brave stave that - who calls ? mr . starbuck ? aye , aye , sir - ( aside ) he ' s 
my superior , he has his too , if i ' m not mistaken . - aye , aye , sir , just 
through with this job - coming . 
chapter UNK . midnight , forecastle . 
harpooneers and sailors . 
( UNK rises and UNK the watch standing , lounging , leaning , and 
lying in various attitudes , all singing in chorus . ) 
farewell and adieu to you , spanish ladies ! 
farewell and adieu to you , ladies of spain ! 
our captain ' s commanded . - 
1st nantucket sailor . oh , boys , don ' t be sentimental ; it ' s bad for the 
UNK ! take a UNK , follow me ! ( UNK , and all follow ) 
our captain stood upon the deck , 
a spy - glass in his hand , 
a UNK of those gallant whales 
that blew at every strand . 
oh , your tubs in your boats , my boys , 
and by your braces stand , 
and we ' ll have one of those fine whales , 
hand , boys , over hand ! 
so , be UNK , my lads ! may your hearts never fail ! 
while the bold UNK is striking the whale ! 
mate ' s voice from the quarter - deck . eight bells there , forward ! 
UNK nantucket sailor . avast the chorus ! eight bells there ! d ' ye hear , 
bell - boy ? strike the bell eight , thou pip ! thou UNK ! and let me 
call the watch . i ' ve the sort of mouth for that - the hogshead mouth . 
so , so , ( thrusts his head down the scuttle , ) star - UNK - l - e - e - n - s , a - h - o - UNK ! 
eight bells there below ! tumble up ! 
dutch sailor . grand UNK to - night , maty ; fat night for that . i 
mark this in our old mogul ' s wine ; it ' s quite as UNK to some as 
UNK to others . we sing ; they sleep - aye , lie down there , like 
ground - UNK butts . at ' em again ! there , take this copper - pump , and hail 
' em through it . tell ' em to avast dreaming of their UNK . tell ' em 
it ' s the resurrection ; they must kiss their last , and come to judgment . 
that ' s the way - that ' s it ; thy throat ain ' t spoiled with eating 
amsterdam butter . 
french sailor . hist , boys ! let ' s have a jig or two before we ride to 
anchor in blanket bay . what say ye ? there comes the other watch . stand 
by all legs ! pip ! little pip ! hurrah with your tambourine ! 
pip . ( sulky and sleepy ) don ' t know where it is . 
french sailor . beat thy belly , then , and UNK thy ears . jig it , men , 
i say ; merry ' s the word ; hurrah ! damn me , won ' t you dance ? form , now , 
indian - file , and UNK into the double - UNK ? throw yourselves ! legs ! 
legs ! 
iceland sailor . i don ' t like your floor , maty ; it ' s too UNK to my 
taste . i ' m used to ice - floors . i ' m sorry to throw cold water on the 
subject ; but UNK me . 
maltese sailor . me too ; where ' s your girls ? who but a fool would take 
his left hand by his right , and say to himself , how d ' ye do ? UNK ! i 
must have UNK ! 
sicilian sailor . aye ; girls and a green ! - then i ' ll hop with ye ; yea , 
turn grasshopper ! 
long - island sailor . well , well , ye UNK , there ' s plenty more of us . 
hoe corn when you may , say i . all legs go to harvest soon . ah ! here 
comes the music ; now for it ! 
azore sailor . ( ascending , and pitching the tambourine up the scuttle . ) 
here you are , pip ; and there ' s the windlass - bitts ; up you mount ! now , 
boys ! ( the half of them dance to the tambourine ; some go below ; some 
sleep or lie among the coils of rigging . oaths a - plenty . ) 
azore sailor . ( dancing ) go it , pip ! UNK it , bell - boy ! rig it , dig it , 
UNK it , UNK it , bell - boy ! make fire - flies ; break the jinglers ! 
pip . jinglers , you say ? - there goes another , dropped off ; i pound it so . 
china sailor . UNK thy teeth , then , and pound away ; make a pagoda of 
thyself . 
french sailor . merry - mad ! hold up thy UNK , pip , till i jump through it ! 
split UNK ! tear yourselves ! 
tashtego . ( quietly smoking ) that ' s a white man ; he calls that fun : 
humph ! i save my sweat . 
old manx sailor . i wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what 
they are dancing over . i ' ll dance over your grave , i will - that ' s 
the bitterest threat of your night - women , that beat head - winds round 
corners . o UNK ! to think of the green navies and the green - UNK 
crews ! well , well ; belike the whole world ' s a ball , as you UNK have 
it ; and so ' tis right to make one UNK of it . dance on , lads , you ' re 
young ; i was once . 
3d nantucket sailor . spell oh ! - whew ! this is worse than pulling after 
whales in a calm - give us a whiff , tash . 
( they cease dancing , and gather in clusters . meantime the sky 
UNK - the wind rises . ) 
UNK sailor . by brahma ! boys , it ' ll be UNK sail soon . the sky - born , 
high - tide UNK turned to wind ! thou UNK thy black brow , UNK ! 
maltese sailor . ( reclining and shaking his cap . ) it ' s the waves - the 
snow ' s caps turn to jig it now . they ' ll shake their UNK soon . now 
would all the waves were women , then i ' d go drown , and UNK with them 
evermore ! there ' s naught so sweet on earth - heaven may not match 
it ! - as those swift glances of warm , wild UNK in the dance , when the 
over - UNK arms hide such ripe , bursting grapes . 
sicilian sailor . ( reclining . ) tell me not of it ! hark ye , lad - fleet 
UNK of the limbs - lithe UNK - UNK - UNK ! lip ! 
heart ! hip ! all graze : unceasing touch and go ! not taste , observe ye , 
else come UNK . eh , pagan ? ( UNK . ) 
UNK sailor . ( reclining on a mat . ) hail , holy nakedness of our 
dancing girls ! - the heeva - heeva ! ah ! low UNK , high palmed tahiti ! i 
still rest me on thy mat , but the soft soil has slid ! i saw thee woven 
in the wood , my mat ! green the first day i brought ye thence ; now worn 
and UNK quite . ah me ! - not thou nor i can bear the change ! how 
then , if so be UNK to yon sky ? hear i the roaring streams from 
UNK ' s peak of spears , when they leap down the UNK and drown the 
villages ? - the blast ! the blast ! up , spine , and meet it ! ( leaps to his 
feet . ) 
portuguese sailor . how the sea rolls swashing ' UNK the side ! stand 
by for UNK , hearties ! the winds are just crossing UNK , UNK - mell 
they ' ll go lunging presently . 
danish sailor . crack , crack , old ship ! so long as thou UNK , thou 
UNK ! well done ! the mate there holds ye to it stiffly . he ' s no more 
afraid than the isle UNK at UNK , put there to fight the baltic 
with storm - lashed guns , on which the sea - salt cakes ! 
UNK nantucket sailor . he has his orders , mind ye that . i heard old 
ahab tell him he must always kill a squall , something as they burst a 
UNK with a pistol - fire your ship right into it ! 
english sailor . blood ! but that old man ' s a grand old UNK ! we are the 
lads to hunt him up his whale ! 
all . aye ! aye ! 
old manx sailor . how the three pines shake ! pines are the UNK sort 
of tree to live when shifted to any other soil , and here there ' s none 
but the crew ' s cursed clay . steady , helmsman ! steady . this is the sort 
of weather when brave hearts snap ashore , and UNK hulls split at sea . 
our captain has his UNK ; look yonder , boys , there ' s another in the 
sky - UNK - like , ye see , all else pitch black . 
daggoo . what of that ? who ' s afraid of black ' s afraid of me ! i ' m quarried 
out of it ! 
spanish sailor . ( aside . ) he wants to UNK , ah ! - the old UNK makes 
me UNK ( advancing . ) aye , harpooneer , thy race is the undeniable dark 
side of mankind - devilish dark at that . no UNK . 
daggoo ( grimly ) . none . 
st . jago ' s sailor . that spaniard ' s mad or UNK . but that can ' t be , or 
else in his one case our old mogul ' s fire - waters are somewhat long in 
working . 
UNK nantucket sailor . what ' s that i saw - lightning ? yes . 
spanish sailor . no ; daggoo showing his teeth . 
daggoo ( springing ) . swallow thine , UNK ! white skin , white liver ! 
spanish sailor ( meeting him ) . knife thee heartily ! big frame , small 
spirit ! 
all . a row ! a row ! a row ! 
tashtego ( with a whiff ) . a row a ' low , and a row aloft - gods and 
men - both UNK ! humph ! 
UNK sailor . a row ! UNK a row ! the virgin be blessed , a row ! plunge 
in with ye ! 
english sailor . fair play ! snatch the spaniard ' s knife ! a ring , a ring ! 
old manx sailor . ready formed . there ! the ringed horizon . in that ring 
UNK struck UNK . sweet work , right work ! no ? why then , god , mad ' st thou 
the ring ? 
mate ' s voice from the quarter - deck . hands by the halyards ! in 
top - gallant sails ! stand by to reef topsails ! 
all . the squall ! the squall ! jump , my jollies ! ( they UNK . ) 
pip ( shrinking under the windlass ) . jollies ? lord help such jollies ! 
UNK , UNK ! there goes the jib - stay ! UNK - whang ! god ! duck lower , 
pip , here comes the royal yard ! it ' s worse than being in the whirled 
woods , the last day of the year ! who ' d go climbing after UNK now ? 
but there they go , all UNK , and here i don ' t . fine prospects to ' em ; 
they ' re on the road to heaven . hold on hard ! UNK , what a squall ! 
but those chaps there are worse yet - they are your white squalls , they . 
white squalls ? white whale , shirr ! shirr ! here have i heard all their 
chat just now , and the white whale - shirr ! shirr ! - but spoken of 
once ! and only this evening - it makes me UNK all over like my 
tambourine - that anaconda of an old man swore ' em in to hunt him ! oh , 
thou big white god aloft there somewhere in yon darkness , have mercy on 
this small black boy down here ; preserve him from all men that have no 
bowels to feel fear ! 
chapter UNK . moby dick . 
i , ishmael , was one of that crew ; my UNK had gone up with the rest ; 
my oath had been welded with theirs ; and stronger i shouted , and more 
did i hammer and clinch my oath , because of the dread in my soul . a 
wild , mystical , UNK feeling was in me ; ahab ' s UNK UNK 
seemed mine . with UNK ears i learned the history of that murderous 
monster against whom i and all the others had taken our oaths of 
violence and revenge . 
for some time past , though at intervals only , the UNK , 
secluded white whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly 
frequented by the sperm whale fishermen . but not all of them knew of his 
existence ; only a few of them , comparatively , had knowingly seen him ; 
while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to 
him , was small indeed . for , owing to the large number of whale - cruisers ; 
the UNK way they were sprinkled over the entire watery 
circumference , many of them UNK pushing their quest along 
solitary latitudes , so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or 
more on a stretch , to encounter a single news - telling sail of any sort ; 
the inordinate length of each separate voyage ; the UNK of the 
times of sailing from home ; all these , with other circumstances , direct 
and indirect , long UNK the spread through the whole world - wide 
whaling - fleet of the special UNK tidings concerning moby 
dick . it was hardly to be doubted , that several vessels reported to have 
encountered , at such or such a time , or on such or such a UNK , 
a sperm whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity , which whale , after 
doing great mischief to his UNK , had completely escaped them ; to 
some minds it was not an UNK presumption , i say , that the whale in 
question must have been no other than moby dick . yet as of late the 
sperm whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent 
instances of great ferocity , cunning , and malice in the monster 
attacked ; therefore it was , that those who by accident ignorantly gave 
battle to moby dick ; such hunters , perhaps , for the most part , were 
content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred , more , as it were , to 
the perils of the sperm whale fishery at large , than to the individual 
cause . in that way , mostly , the disastrous encounter between ahab and 
the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded . 
and as for those who , previously hearing of the white whale , by chance 
caught sight of him ; in the beginning of the thing they had every one of 
them , almost , as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him , as for any other 
whale of that species . but at length , such UNK did ensue in these 
assaults - not restricted to sprained wrists and UNK , broken limbs , or 
devouring UNK - but fatal to the last degree of fatality ; those 
repeated disastrous UNK , all UNK and UNK their terrors 
upon moby dick ; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many 
brave hunters , to whom the story of the white whale had eventually come . 
nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to UNK , and still the more 
UNK the true histories of these deadly encounters . for not only do 
fabulous rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising 
terrible events , - as the smitten tree gives birth to its UNK ; but , in 
maritime life , far more than in that of UNK UNK , wild rumors abound , 
wherever there is any adequate reality for them to UNK to . and as the 
sea surpasses the land in this matter , so the whale fishery surpasses 
every other sort of maritime life , in the UNK and fearfulness 
of the rumors which sometimes UNK there . for not only are whalemen 
as a body UNK from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary 
to all sailors ; but of all sailors , they are by all odds the most 
directly brought into contact with whatever is UNK astonishing 
in the sea ; face to face they not only eye its greatest marvels , but , 
hand to jaw , give battle to them . alone , in such remotest waters , that 
though you sailed a thousand miles , and passed a thousand shores , you 
would not come to any UNK hearth - stone , or aught hospitable beneath 
that part of the sun ; in such latitudes and longitudes , pursuing too 
such a calling as he does , the whaleman is wrapped by influences all 
tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a mighty birth . 
no wonder , then , that ever gathering volume from the mere UNK over 
the UNK watery spaces , the UNK rumors of the white whale did 
in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of UNK hints , 
and half - formed UNK suggestions of supernatural agencies , which 
eventually invested moby dick with new terrors UNK from anything 
that visibly appears . so that in many cases such a panic did he finally 
strike , that few who by those rumors , at least , had heard of the white 
whale , few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his 
jaw . 
but there were still other and more vital practical influences at work . 
not even at the present day has the original UNK of the sperm 
whale , as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the 
leviathan , died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body . there are 
those this day among them , who , though intelligent and courageous 
enough in offering battle to the greenland or right whale , would 
perhaps - either from professional UNK , or UNK , or 
timidity , decline a UNK with the sperm whale ; at any rate , there are 
plenty of whalemen , especially among those whaling nations not sailing 
under the american flag , who have never UNK encountered the sperm 
whale , but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to 
the ignoble monster UNK pursued in the north ; seated on their 
hatches , these men will hearken with a UNK fireside interest 
and awe , to the wild , strange tales of southern whaling . nor is the 
pre - UNK UNK of the great sperm whale anywhere more 
UNK comprehended , than on board of those UNK which stem him . 
and as if the now UNK reality of his might had in former 
legendary times thrown its shadow before it ; we find some book 
naturalists - UNK and povelson - declaring the sperm whale not only to 
be a consternation to every other creature in the sea , but also to be so 
UNK ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood . nor 
even down to so late a time as cuvier ' s , were these or almost similar 
impressions effaced . for in his natural history , the baron himself 
UNK that at sight of the sperm whale , all fish ( sharks included ) are 
" struck with the most lively terrors , " and " often in the UNK of 
their flight dash themselves against the rocks with such violence as to 
cause instantaneous death . " and however the general experiences in the 
fishery may UNK such UNK as these ; yet in their full UNK , 
even to the UNK item of povelson , the superstitious belief in 
them is , in some vicissitudes of their vocation , revived in the minds of 
the hunters . 
so that UNK by the rumors and portents concerning him , not a few of 
the fishermen recalled , in reference to moby dick , the earlier days 
of the sperm whale fishery , when it was oftentimes hard to induce long 
practised right whalemen to embark in the perils of this new and daring 
UNK ; such men UNK that UNK other leviathans might be 
UNK pursued , yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition 
as the sperm whale was not for mortal man . that to attempt it , would 
be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity . on this head , there are 
some remarkable UNK that may be UNK . 
nevertheless , some there were , who even in the face of these things 
were ready to give chase to moby dick ; and a still greater number who , 
chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely , without the 
specific details of any certain calamity , and without superstitious 
accompaniments , were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if 
offered . 
one of the wild suggestions referred to , as at last coming to be linked 
with the white whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined , 
was the unearthly conceit that moby dick was ubiquitous ; that he had 
actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same 
instant of time . 
nor , credulous as such minds must have been , was this conceit altogether 
without some faint show of superstitious probability . for as the secrets 
of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged , even to 
the most erudite research ; so the hidden ways of the sperm whale 
when beneath the surface remain , in great part , unaccountable to his 
pursuers ; and from time to time have UNK the most curious and 
contradictory speculations regarding them , especially concerning the 
mystic modes whereby , after sounding to a great depth , he UNK 
himself with such vast UNK to the most widely distant points . 
it is a thing well known to both american and english whale - ships , and 
as well a thing placed upon UNK record years ago by scoresby , 
that some whales have been captured far north in the pacific , in whose 
bodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the greenland 
seas . nor is it to be gainsaid , that in some of these instances it has 
been declared that the interval of time between the two assaults could 
not have exceeded very many days . hence , by inference , it has been 
believed by some whalemen , that the nor ' west passage , so long a problem 
to man , was never a problem to the whale . so that here , in the real 
living experience of living men , the prodigies related in old times of 
the inland UNK mountain in UNK ( near whose top there was said 
to be a lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface ) ; 
and that still more wonderful story of the UNK fountain near 
UNK ( whose waters were believed to have come from the holy land 
by an UNK passage ) ; these fabulous UNK are almost fully 
equalled by the UNK of the whalemen . 
forced into UNK , then , with such prodigies as these ; and knowing 
that after repeated , intrepid assaults , the white whale had escaped 
alive ; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should 
go still further in their superstitions ; declaring moby dick not only 
ubiquitous , but immortal ( for UNK is but UNK in time ) ; that 
though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks , he would still 
swim away unharmed ; or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick 
blood , such a sight would be but a ghastly deception ; for again in 
UNK billows hundreds of leagues away , his UNK jet would 
once more be seen . 
but even stripped of these supernatural UNK , there was enough in 
the earthly make and UNK character of the monster to strike 
the imagination with unwonted power . for , it was not so much his 
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales , 
but , as was elsewhere thrown out - a peculiar snow - white wrinkled 
forehead , and a high , pyramidical white hump . these were his UNK 
features ; the tokens whereby , even in the UNK , UNK seas , he 
revealed his identity , at a long distance , to those who knew him . 
the rest of his body was so UNK , and spotted , and UNK with 
the same shrouded hue , that , in the end , he had gained his distinctive 
appellation of the white whale ; a name , indeed , literally UNK by 
his vivid aspect , when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue 
sea , leaving a milky - way wake of creamy foam , all spangled with golden 
UNK . 
nor was it his unwonted magnitude , nor his remarkable hue , nor yet his 
deformed lower jaw , that so much invested the whale with natural terror , 
as that UNK , intelligent malignity which , according to specific 
accounts , he had over and over again evinced in his assaults . more than 
all , his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than perhaps aught 
else . for , when swimming before his exulting pursuers , with every 
apparent UNK of alarm , he had several times been known to turn 
round suddenly , and , bearing down upon them , either stave their boats to 
splinters , or drive them back in consternation to their ship . 
already several UNK had attended his chase . but though similar 
disasters , however little bruited ashore , were by no means unusual 
in the fishery ; yet , in most instances , such seemed the white whale ' s 
infernal aforethought of ferocity , that every UNK or death 
that he caused , was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an 
UNK agent . 
judge , then , to what UNK of UNK , distracted fury the minds of 
his more desperate hunters were impelled , when amid the chips of chewed 
boats , and the sinking limbs of torn comrades , they swam out of the 
white curds of the whale ' s direful wrath into the serene , UNK 
sunlight , that UNK on , as if at a birth or a bridal . 
his three boats stove around him , and oars and men both whirling in the 
eddies ; one captain , seizing the line - knife from his broken prow , had 
dashed at the whale , as an UNK UNK at his foe , blindly seeking 
with a six inch blade to reach the fathom - deep life of the whale . 
that captain was ahab . and then it was , that suddenly sweeping his 
sickle - shaped lower jaw beneath him , moby dick had reaped away ahab ' s 
leg , as a UNK a blade of grass in the field . no turbaned turk , no 
UNK venetian or UNK , could have smote him with more seeming malice . 
small reason was there to doubt , then , that ever since that almost fatal 
encounter , ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale , 
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came 
to UNK with him , not only all his bodily UNK , but all his 
intellectual and spiritual UNK . the white whale swam before 
him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which 
some deep men feel eating in them , till they are left living on with 
half a heart and half a lung . that UNK malignity which has been 
from the beginning ; to whose dominion even the modern christians ascribe 
one - half of the worlds ; which the ancient UNK of the east UNK 
in their statue devil ; - ahab did not fall down and worship it like them ; 
but deliriously UNK its idea to the abhorred white whale , he 
UNK himself , all UNK , against it . all that most UNK and 
torments ; all that stirs up the lees of things ; all truth with malice 
in it ; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain ; all the subtle 
UNK of life and thought ; all evil , to crazy ahab , were visibly 
personified , and made practically UNK in moby dick . he piled upon 
the whale ' s white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt 
by his whole race from adam down ; and then , as if his chest had been a 
mortar , he burst his hot heart ' s shell upon it . 
it is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at 
the precise time of his bodily UNK . then , in darting at the 
monster , knife in hand , he had but given loose to a sudden , passionate , 
UNK UNK ; and when he received the stroke that tore him , he 
probably but felt the agonizing bodily UNK , but nothing more . 
yet , when by this UNK forced to turn towards home , and for long 
months of days and weeks , ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one 
hammock , rounding in mid winter that dreary , howling patagonian cape ; 
then it was , that his torn body and UNK soul UNK into one another ; 
and so UNK , made him mad . that it was only then , on the homeward 
voyage , after the encounter , that the final monomania seized him , seems 
all but certain from the fact that , at intervals during the passage , 
he was a raving UNK ; and , though UNK of a leg , yet such vital 
strength yet lurked in his egyptian chest , and was moreover intensified 
by his delirium , that his mates were forced to UNK him fast , even 
there , as he sailed , raving in his hammock . in a strait - jacket , he swung 
to the mad UNK of the gales . and , when running into more sufferable 
latitudes , the ship , with mild stun ' sails spread , floated across the 
tranquil tropics , and , to all appearances , the old man ' s delirium seemed 
left behind him with the cape horn swells , and he came forth from his 
dark den into the blessed light and air ; even then , when he bore that 
firm , collected front , however pale , and issued his calm orders once 
again ; and his mates UNK god the direful madness was now gone ; even 
then , ahab , in his hidden self , UNK on . human madness is oftentimes a 
cunning and most UNK thing . when you think it fled , it may have but 
become UNK into some still UNK form . ahab ' s full lunacy 
subsided not , but UNK contracted ; like the unabated UNK , 
when that noble UNK flows narrowly , but unfathomably through the 
highland gorge . but , as in his narrow - flowing monomania , not one jot of 
ahab ' s broad madness had been left behind ; so in that broad madness , not 
one jot of his great natural intellect had perished . that before living 
agent , now became the living instrument . if such a furious UNK may 
stand , his special lunacy UNK his general sanity , and carried it , 
and turned all its UNK cannon upon its own mad mark ; so that far 
from having lost his strength , ahab , to that one end , did now possess a 
thousand fold more potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon 
any one reasonable object . 
this is much ; yet ahab ' s larger , darker , deeper part remains UNK . 
but vain to UNK profundities , and all truth is profound . winding 
far down from within the very heart of this UNK UNK de UNK where 
we here stand - however grand and wonderful , now quit it ; - and take your 
way , ye nobler , sadder souls , to those vast roman halls of UNK ; 
where far beneath the UNK towers of man ' s upper earth , his root 
of grandeur , his whole awful essence sits in bearded state ; an antique 
buried beneath UNK , and UNK on UNK ! so with a broken 
throne , the great gods UNK that captive king ; so like a UNK , he 
patient sits , UNK on his frozen brow the piled UNK of 
ages . wind ye down there , ye UNK , sadder souls ! question that proud , 
sad king ! a family likeness ! aye , he did beget ye , ye young UNK 
UNK ; and from your grim sire only will the old state - secret come . 
now , in his heart , ahab had some glimpse of this , namely : all my means 
are UNK , my motive and my object mad . yet without power to kill , or 
change , or shun the fact ; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long 
UNK ; in some sort , did still . but that thing of his dissembling 
was only subject to his UNK , not to his will determinate . 
nevertheless , so well did he succeed in that dissembling , that when 
with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last , no nantucketer thought him 
otherwise than but naturally UNK , and that to the quick , with the 
terrible casualty which had UNK him . 
the report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly 
ascribed to a kindred cause . and so too , all the added UNK which 
always afterwards , to the very day of sailing in the pequod on the 
present voyage , sat brooding on his brow . nor is it so very UNK , 
that far from distrusting his UNK for another whaling voyage , on 
account of such dark symptoms , the calculating people of that prudent 
isle were inclined to harbor the conceit , that for those very reasons he 
was all the better qualified and set on edge , for a pursuit so full 
of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales . UNK within and 
scorched without , with the UNK , UNK UNK of some UNK 
idea ; such an one , could he be found , would seem the very man to dart 
his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all UNK . 
or , if for any reason thought to be UNK UNK for that , 
yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on 
his UNK to the attack . but be all this as it may , certain it is , 
that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and UNK in 
him , ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only 
and all - UNK object of hunting the white whale . had any one of his 
old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him 
then , how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the 
ship from such a UNK man ! they were bent on UNK cruises , the 
profit to be counted down in dollars from the UNK . he was intent on an 
audacious , UNK , and supernatural revenge . 
here , then , was this grey - headed , ungodly old man , chasing with curses a 
job ' s whale round the world , at the head of a crew , too , chiefly made 
up of UNK renegades , and UNK , and cannibals - UNK UNK 
also , by the UNK of mere UNK virtue or right - UNK in 
starbuck , the UNK jollity of indifference and UNK in 
stubb , and the pervading UNK in flask . such a crew , so UNK , 
seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatality to help him 
to his monomaniac revenge . how it was that they so UNK responded 
to the old man ' s UNK - by what evil magic their souls were possessed , 
that at times his hate seemed almost theirs ; the white whale as much 
their insufferable foe as his ; how all this came to be - what the white 
whale was to them , or how to their unconscious UNK , also , in 
some dim , unsuspected way , he might have seemed the gliding great UNK 
of the seas of life , - all this to explain , would be to dive deeper than 
ishmael can go . the subterranean UNK that works in us all , how can one 
tell UNK leads his shaft by the ever shifting , muffled sound of his 
pick ? who does not feel the irresistible arm drag ? what skiff in tow 
of a seventy - four can stand still ? for one , i gave myself up to the 
abandonment of the time and the place ; but while yet all a - rush to 
encounter the whale , could see naught in that brute but the deadliest 
ill . 
chapter UNK . the whiteness of the whale . 
what the white whale was to ahab , has been hinted ; what , at times , he 
was to me , as yet remains UNK . 
aside from those more obvious considerations touching moby dick , which 
could not but occasionally UNK in any man ' s soul some alarm , there 
was another thought , or rather vague , nameless horror concerning him , 
which at times by its intensity completely UNK all the rest ; and 
yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it , that i almost despair of 
putting it in a comprehensible form . it was the whiteness of the whale 
that above all things appalled me . but how can i hope to explain myself 
here ; and yet , in some dim , random way , explain myself i must , else all 
these chapters might be naught . 
though in many natural objects , whiteness UNK enhances beauty , as 
if UNK some special virtue of its own , as in marbles , UNK , 
and UNK ; and though various nations have in some way recognised a 
certain royal UNK in this hue ; even the barbaric , grand old 
kings of UNK placing the title " lord of the white elephants " above all 
their other UNK UNK of dominion ; and the modern kings 
of siam UNK the same snow - white quadruped in the royal standard ; 
and the UNK flag bearing the one figure of a snow - white charger ; 
and the great UNK empire , UNK , UNK to UNK rome , 
having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue ; and though this 
pre - UNK in it applies to the human race itself , giving the white 
man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe ; and though , besides , all 
this , whiteness has been even made significant of gladness , for among 
the romans a white stone marked a joyful day ; and though in other mortal 
sympathies and UNK , this same hue is made the UNK of many 
touching , noble things - the innocence of UNK , the UNK of age ; 
though among the red men of america the giving of the white belt 
of UNK was the deepest pledge of honour ; though in many climes , 
whiteness UNK the majesty of justice in the UNK of the judge , 
and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by 
milk - white UNK ; though even in the higher mysteries of the most 
august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine UNK 
and power ; by the persian fire UNK , the white forked flame being 
held the holiest on the altar ; and in the greek mythologies , great jove 
himself being made incarnate in a snow - white bull ; and though to the 
noble iroquois , the UNK sacrifice of the sacred white dog was 
by far the holiest UNK of their UNK , that UNK , faithful 
creature being held the purest UNK they could send to the great spirit 
with the annual tidings of their own UNK ; and though directly from 
the latin word for white , all christian priests derive the name of 
one part of their sacred vesture , the UNK or UNK , worn beneath the 
cassock ; and though among the holy UNK of the romish faith , white is 
specially employed in the UNK of the passion of our lord ; though 
in the vision of st . john , white robes are given to the redeemed , and 
the four - and - twenty UNK stand clothed in white before the great - white 
throne , and the holy one that UNK there white like wool ; yet for all 
these accumulated associations , with whatever is sweet , and honourable , 
and sublime , there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea 
of this hue , which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness 
which affrights in blood . 
this elusive quality it is , which causes the thought of whiteness , when 
UNK from more kindly associations , and coupled with any object 
terrible in itself , to heighten that terror to the furthest UNK . 
witness the white bear of the poles , and the white shark of the tropics ; 
what but their smooth , UNK whiteness makes them the UNK 
horrors they are ? that ghastly whiteness it is which imparts such an 
UNK mildness , even more UNK than terrific , to the dumb 
UNK of their aspect . so that not the fierce - UNK tiger in his 
UNK coat can so stagger courage as the white - shrouded bear or 
shark . * 
* with reference to the polar bear , it may possibly be urged by him 
who would fain go still deeper into this matter , that it is not 
the whiteness , separately regarded , which heightens the intolerable 
UNK of that brute ; for , UNK , that heightened UNK , 
it might be said , only rises from the circumstance , that the 
UNK UNK of the creature stands invested in the 
fleece of celestial innocence and love ; and hence , by bringing together 
two such opposite emotions in our minds , the polar bear UNK us 
with so unnatural a contrast . but even assuming all this to be true ; 
yet , were it not for the whiteness , you would not have that intensified 
terror . 
as for the white shark , the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that 
creature , when beheld in his ordinary moods , strangely UNK with the 
same quality in the polar quadruped . this peculiarity is most UNK 
hit by the french in the name they bestow upon that fish . the romish 
mass for the dead begins with " requiem UNK " ( eternal rest ) , whence 
requiem UNK the mass itself , and any other funeral music . now , 
in allusion to the white , silent stillness of death in this shark , and 
the mild UNK of his habits , the french call him UNK . 
bethink thee of the albatross , whence come those clouds of spiritual 
wonderment and pale dread , in which that white phantom sails in all 
UNK ? not coleridge first threw that spell ; but god ' s great , 
UNK UNK , nature . * 
* i remember the first albatross i ever saw . it was during a prolonged 
gale , in waters hard upon the antarctic seas . from my forenoon watch 
below , i ascended to the UNK deck ; and there , dashed upon the 
main hatches , i saw a regal , UNK thing of UNK whiteness , and 
with a hooked , roman bill sublime . at intervals , it arched forth 
its vast archangel wings , as if to embrace some holy ark . wondrous 
UNK and UNK shook it . though bodily unharmed , it uttered 
cries , as some king ' s ghost in supernatural distress . through its 
inexpressible , strange eyes , UNK i peeped to secrets which took 
hold of god . as abraham before the angels , i bowed myself ; the white 
thing was so white , its wings so wide , and in those for ever UNK 
waters , i had lost the miserable UNK memories of traditions and of 
towns . long i gazed at that prodigy of plumage . i cannot tell , can only 
hint , the things that darted through me then . but at last i awoke ; and 
turning , asked a sailor what bird was this . a goney , he replied . goney ! 
never had heard that name before ; is it conceivable that this glorious 
thing is utterly unknown to men ashore ! never ! but some time after , i 
learned that goney was some seaman ' s name for albatross . so that by no 
possibility could coleridge ' s wild rhyme have had aught to do with those 
mystical impressions which were mine , when i saw that bird upon our 
deck . for neither had i then read the rhyme , nor knew the bird to be 
an albatross . yet , in saying this , i do but indirectly UNK a little 
brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet . 
i assert , then , that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird 
chiefly lurks the secret of the spell ; a truth the more evinced in this , 
that by a UNK of terms there are birds called grey UNK ; 
and these i have frequently seen , but never with such emotions as when i 
beheld the antarctic fowl . 
but how had the mystic thing been caught ? whisper it not , and i will 
tell ; with a treacherous hook and line , as the fowl floated on the sea . 
at last the captain made a UNK of it ; tying a UNK , leathern 
UNK round its neck , with the ship ' s time and place ; and then letting 
it escape . but i doubt not , that leathern UNK , meant for man , was 
taken off in heaven , when the white fowl flew to join the wing - folding , 
the invoking , and UNK UNK ! 
most famous in our western annals and indian traditions is that of 
the white steed of the prairies ; a magnificent milk - white charger , 
large - eyed , small - headed , bluff - UNK , and with the dignity of a 
thousand UNK in his lofty , UNK carriage . he was the 
UNK xerxes of vast herds of wild horses , whose pastures in those 
days were only UNK by the UNK mountains and the UNK . at 
their flaming head he westward UNK it like that chosen star which 
every evening leads on the hosts of light . the flashing UNK of his 
UNK , the curving UNK of his tail , invested him with housings more 
resplendent than gold and silver - UNK could have furnished him . a 
most imperial and UNK apparition of that UNK , western 
world , which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the 
glories of those UNK times when adam walked majestic as a god , 
bluff - UNK and fearless as this mighty steed . whether marching amid 
his UNK and UNK in the van of countless UNK that UNK 
streamed it over the plains , like an ohio ; or whether with his 
UNK subjects UNK all around at the horizon , the white 
steed UNK UNK them with warm nostrils reddening through his 
cool UNK ; in whatever aspect he presented himself , always to the 
bravest indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe . nor 
can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of this noble 
horse , that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly , which so clothed him 
with divineness ; and that this divineness had that in it which , though 
commanding worship , at the same time UNK a certain nameless terror . 
but there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that 
accessory and strange glory which invests it in the white steed and 
albatross . 
what is it that in the albino man so peculiarly UNK and often UNK 
the eye , as that sometimes he is UNK by his own kith and UNK ! it 
is that whiteness which invests him , a thing expressed by the name 
he bears . the albino is as well made as other men - has no UNK 
UNK - and yet this mere aspect of all - pervading whiteness makes him 
more strangely hideous than the UNK UNK . why should this be so ? 
nor , in quite other aspects , does nature in her least palpable but 
not the less malicious agencies , fail to enlist among her forces 
this crowning UNK of the terrible . from its snowy aspect , the 
UNK ghost of the southern seas has been denominated the white 
squall . nor , in some UNK instances , has the art of human malice 
omitted so potent an auxiliary . how wildly it heightens the effect of 
that passage in UNK , when , UNK in the snowy symbol of their 
UNK , the desperate white UNK of UNK murder their UNK in the 
market - place ! 
nor , in some things , does the common , hereditary experience of all 
mankind fail to bear witness to the UNK of this hue . it 
cannot well be doubted , that the one visible quality in the aspect of 
the dead which most appals the UNK , is the marble pallor lingering 
there ; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of 
consternation in the other world , as of mortal trepidation here . and 
from that pallor of the dead , we UNK the expressive hue of the shroud 
in which we UNK them . nor even in our superstitions do we fail to 
throw the same snowy UNK round our phantoms ; all ghosts rising in a 
milk - white fog - yea , while these terrors seize us , let us add , that even 
the king of terrors , when personified by the evangelist , rides on his 
pallid horse . 
therefore , in his other moods , UNK whatever grand or gracious 
thing he will by whiteness , no man can deny that in its profoundest 
UNK significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul . 
but though without UNK this point be fixed , how is mortal man to 
account for it ? to UNK it , would seem impossible . can we , then , 
by the UNK of some of those instances wherein this thing of 
whiteness - though for the time either wholly or in great part stripped 
of all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful , 
but nevertheless , is found to UNK over us the same UNK , however 
modified ; - can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us 
to the hidden cause we seek ? 
let us try . but in a matter like this , UNK appeals to UNK , 
and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls . and 
though , doubtless , some at least of the UNK impressions about 
to be presented may have been shared by most men , yet few perhaps were 
entirely conscious of them at the time , and therefore may not be able to 
recall them now . 
why to the man of untutored UNK , who happens to be but UNK 
acquainted with the peculiar character of the day , does the bare mention 
of UNK marshal in the fancy such long , dreary , speechless 
processions of slow - pacing UNK , down - cast and hooded with 
new - fallen snow ? or , to the UNK , unsophisticated UNK of the 
middle american states , why does the passing mention of a white friar or 
a white UNK , UNK such an UNK statue in the soul ? 
or what is there apart from the traditions of UNK warriors and 
kings ( which will not wholly account for it ) that makes the white 
tower of london tell so much more strongly on the imagination of 
an untravelled american , than those other storied UNK , its 
UNK - the UNK tower , or even the bloody ? and those UNK 
towers , the white mountains of new hampshire , whence , in peculiar moods , 
comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of 
that name , while the thought of virginia ' s blue ridge is full of a soft , 
UNK , distant dreaminess ? or why , UNK of all latitudes and 
longitudes , does the name of the white sea UNK such a UNK 
over the fancy , while that of the yellow sea UNK us with mortal 
thoughts of long lacquered mild UNK on the waves , followed by 
the UNK and yet UNK of UNK ? or , to choose a wholly 
UNK instance , purely addressed to the fancy , why , in reading 
the old fairy tales of central europe , does " the tall pale man " of the 
UNK forests , whose UNK pallor UNK UNK through the 
green of the groves - why is this phantom more terrible than all the 
UNK UNK of the UNK ? 
nor is it , altogether , the UNK of her cathedral - UNK 
earthquakes ; nor the UNK of her frantic seas ; nor the 
UNK of arid skies that never rain ; nor the sight of her wide 
field of leaning spires , wrenched UNK - stones , and crosses all UNK 
( like canted yards of anchored fleets ) ; and her UNK avenues of 
house - walls lying over upon each other , as a tossed pack of cards ; - it 
is not these things alone which make tearless lima , the strangest , 
saddest city thou can ' st see . for lima has taken the white veil ; and 
there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe . old as UNK , 
this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new ; admits not the cheerful 
greenness of complete UNK ; UNK over her broken UNK the rigid 
pallor of an apoplexy that UNK its own UNK . 
i know that , to the common apprehension , this phenomenon of whiteness 
is not UNK to be the prime agent in UNK the terror of 
objects otherwise terrible ; nor to the UNK mind is there aught 
of terror in those appearances whose UNK to another mind almost 
solely consists in this one phenomenon , especially when exhibited under 
any form at all approaching to muteness or UNK . what i mean 
by these two statements may perhaps be respectively elucidated by the 
following examples . 
first : the mariner , when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands , if by 
night he hear the roar of breakers , starts to vigilance , and feels just 
enough of trepidation to UNK all his UNK ; but under precisely 
similar circumstances , let him be called from his hammock to view his 
ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness - as if from 
UNK headlands shoals of UNK white bears were swimming round 
him , then he feels a silent , superstitious dread ; the shrouded phantom 
of the UNK waters is horrible to him as a real ghost ; in vain the 
lead UNK him he is still off soundings ; heart and helm they both go 
down ; he never UNK till blue water is under him again . yet where is 
the mariner who will tell thee , " sir , it was not so much the fear of 
striking hidden rocks , as the fear of that hideous whiteness that so 
stirred me ? " 
second : to the native indian of peru , the continual sight of the 
UNK andes conveys naught of dread , except , perhaps , in the 
mere fancying of the eternal frosted UNK UNK at such vast 
altitudes , and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be 
to lose UNK in such inhuman UNK . much the same is it with the 
backwoodsman of the west , who with comparative indifference views an 
UNK prairie sheeted with driven snow , no shadow of tree or twig 
to break the fixed trance of whiteness . not so the sailor , beholding the 
scenery of the antarctic seas ; where at times , by some infernal trick 
of UNK in the powers of frost and air , he , shivering and half 
UNK , instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery , 
views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with its lean 
ice UNK and splintered crosses . 
but thou UNK , methinks that white - lead chapter about whiteness is but 
a white flag hung out from a craven soul ; thou UNK to a UNK , 
ishmael . 
tell me , why this strong young colt , UNK in some peaceful valley of 
UNK , far removed from all beasts of prey - why is it that upon the 
UNK day , if you but shake a fresh buffalo UNK behind him , so that 
he cannot even see it , but only smells its wild animal UNK - why 
will he start , UNK , and with bursting eyes paw the ground in phrensies 
of affright ? there is no UNK in him of any UNK of wild 
creatures in his green northern home , so that the strange UNK he 
smells cannot recall to him anything UNK with the experience of 
former perils ; for what knows he , this new england colt , of the black 
UNK of distant oregon ? 
no ; but here thou UNK even in a dumb brute , the instinct of the 
knowledge of the UNK in the world . though thousands of miles from 
oregon , still when he smells that savage musk , the UNK , UNK UNK 
herds are as present as to the deserted wild UNK of the prairies , which 
this instant they may be trampling into dust . 
thus , then , the muffled UNK of a milky sea ; the bleak UNK 
of the UNK frosts of mountains ; the desolate UNK of the 
UNK snows of prairies ; all these , to ishmael , are as the shaking 
of that buffalo UNK to the frightened colt ! 
though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic 
sign gives forth such hints ; yet with me , as with the colt , somewhere 
those things must exist . though in many of its aspects this visible 
world seems formed in love , the invisible UNK were formed in fright . 
but not yet have we UNK the incantation of this whiteness , and 
learned why it appeals with such power to the soul ; and more strange 
and far more portentous - why , as we have seen , it is at once the 
most meaning symbol of spiritual things , nay , the very veil of the 
christian ' s deity ; and yet should be as it is , the UNK agent in 
things the most appalling to mankind . 
is it that by its UNK it shadows forth the heartless voids 
and immensities of the universe , and thus UNK us from behind with the 
thought of annihilation , when beholding the white depths of the milky 
way ? or is it , that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour as 
the visible absence of colour ; and at the same time the UNK of all 
colours ; is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness , 
full of meaning , in a wide landscape of snows - a colourless , all - colour 
of UNK from which we UNK ? and when we consider that other theory 
of the natural philosophers , that all other earthly hues - every stately 
or lovely UNK - the sweet UNK of sunset skies and woods ; yea , 
and the gilded velvets of UNK , and the UNK cheeks of 
young girls ; all these are but subtile deceits , not actually inherent 
in substances , but only laid on from without ; so that all deified nature 
absolutely paints like the UNK , whose UNK cover nothing but 
the UNK - house within ; and when we proceed further , and consider that 
the mystical cosmetic which UNK every one of her hues , the great 
principle of light , for ever remains white or colourless in itself , and 
if UNK without medium upon matter , would touch all objects , even 
UNK and roses , with its own blank tinge - pondering all this , the 
palsied universe lies before us a UNK ; and like wilful travellers in 
UNK , who refuse to wear coloured and UNK glasses upon their 
eyes , so the wretched infidel UNK himself blind at the UNK 
white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him . and of all these 
things the albino whale was the symbol . wonder ye then at the fiery 
hunt ? 
chapter UNK . hark ! 
" hist ! did you hear that noise , cabaco ? " 
it was the middle - watch ; a fair moonlight ; the seamen were standing in a 
cordon , extending from one of the fresh - water butts in the waist , to the 
scuttle - butt near the taffrail . in this manner , they passed the buckets 
to fill the scuttle - butt . standing , for the most part , on the UNK 
UNK of the quarter - deck , they were careful not to speak or UNK 
their feet . from hand to hand , the buckets went in the deepest silence , 
only broken by the occasional UNK of a sail , and the steady hum of the 
unceasingly advancing keel . 
it was in the midst of this repose , that archy , one of the cordon , whose 
post was near the after - hatches , whispered to his UNK , a UNK , the 
words above . 
" hist ! did you hear that noise , cabaco ? " 
" take the bucket , will ye , archy ? what noise d ' ye mean ? " 
" there it is again - under the hatches - don ' t you hear it - a cough - it 
sounded like a cough . " 
" cough be damned ! pass along that return bucket . " 
" there again - there it is ! - it sounds like two or three sleepers turning 
over , now ! " 
" UNK ! have done , shipmate , will ye ? it ' s the three soaked biscuits 
ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye - nothing else . look to the 
bucket ! " 
" say what ye will , shipmate ; i ' ve sharp ears . " 
" aye , you are the chap , ain ' t ye , that heard the hum of the old 
quakeress ' s UNK - needles fifty miles at sea from nantucket ; you ' re 
the chap . " 
" grin away ; we ' ll see what turns up . hark ye , cabaco , there is somebody 
down in the after - hold that has not yet been seen on deck ; and i suspect 
our old mogul knows something of it too . i heard stubb tell flask , one 
morning watch , that there was something of that sort in the wind . " 
" UNK ! the bucket ! " 
chapter UNK . the chart . 
had you followed captain ahab down into his cabin after the squall that 
took place on the night UNK that wild UNK of his purpose 
with his crew , you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom , 
and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of UNK sea charts , spread 
them before him on his screwed - down table . then UNK himself before 
it , you would have seen him intently study the various lines and 
UNK which there met his eye ; and with slow but steady pencil trace 
additional courses over spaces that before were blank . at intervals , he 
would refer to UNK of old log - books beside him , wherein were set down 
the seasons and places in which , on various former voyages of various 
ships , sperm whales had been captured or seen . 
while thus employed , the heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over his 
head , continually rocked with the motion of the ship , and for ever threw 
shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his wrinkled brow , till it 
almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines and courses 
on the wrinkled charts , some invisible pencil was also tracing lines and 
courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead . 
but it was not this night in particular that , in the UNK of his 
cabin , ahab thus pondered over his charts . almost every night they were 
brought out ; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced , and 
others were UNK . for with the charts of all four oceans before 
him , ahab was threading a UNK of currents and eddies , with a view to 
the more certain UNK of that monomaniac thought of his soul . 
now , to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans , 
it might seem an UNK hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary 
creature in the UNK oceans of this planet . but not so did it 
seem to ahab , who knew the sets of all tides and currents ; and thereby 
calculating the UNK of the sperm whale ' s food ; and , also , calling 
to mind the regular , UNK seasons for hunting him in particular 
latitudes ; could arrive at reasonable surmises , almost approaching to 
UNK , concerning the UNK day to be upon this or that ground 
in search of his prey . 
so assured , indeed , is the fact concerning the UNK of the 
sperm whale ' s UNK to given waters , that many hunters believe that , 
could he be closely observed and studied throughout the world ; were the 
logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully UNK , 
then the UNK of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in 
UNK to those of the herring - shoals or the flights of swallows . 
on this hint , attempts have been made to UNK UNK UNK 
charts of the sperm whale . * 
* since the above was written , the statement is happily borne 
out by an official circular , issued by UNK UNK , of 
the UNK UNK , washington , april UNK , UNK . by 
that circular , it appears that precisely such a chart is in 
course of UNK ; and portions of it are presented in 
the circular . " this chart UNK the ocean into districts 
of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of longitude ; 
perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve 
columns for the twelve months ; and horizontally through each 
of which districts are three lines ; one to show the number 
of days that have been spent in each month in every 
district , and the two others to show the number of days in 
which whales , sperm or right , have been seen . " 
besides , when making a passage from one feeding - ground to another , the 
sperm whales , guided by some infallible instinct - say , rather , secret 
intelligence from the deity - mostly swim in veins , as they are called ; 
continuing their way along a given ocean - line with such undeviating 
UNK , that no ship ever sailed her course , by any chart , with 
one UNK of such marvellous precision . though , in these cases , the 
direction taken by any one whale be straight as a UNK ' s parallel , 
and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own 
unavoidable , straight wake , yet the UNK UNK in which at these 
times he is said to swim , generally embraces some few miles in width 
( more or less , as the UNK is presumed to expand or UNK ) ; but 
never UNK the visual sweep from the whale - ship ' s mast - heads , 
when UNK gliding along this magic zone . the sum is , that at 
particular seasons within that breadth and along that path , UNK 
whales may with great confidence be looked for . 
and hence not only at substantiated times , upon well known separate 
feeding - grounds , could ahab hope to encounter his prey ; but in crossing 
the UNK UNK of water between those grounds he could , by his 
art , so place and time himself on his way , as even then not to be wholly 
without prospect of a meeting . 
there was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to UNK his 
delirious but still UNK scheme . but not so in the reality , 
perhaps . though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons 
for particular grounds , yet in general you cannot conclude that the 
herds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year , 
say , will turn out to be UNK the same with those that were found 
there the preceding season ; though there are peculiar and unquestionable 
instances where the contrary of this has proved true . in general , the 
same remark , only within a less wide limit , applies to the solitaries 
and hermits among the UNK , aged sperm whales . so that though moby 
dick had in a former year been seen , for example , on what is called the 
UNK ground in the indian ocean , or volcano bay on the japanese 
coast ; yet it did not follow , that were the pequod to visit either of 
those spots at any subsequent corresponding season , she would infallibly 
encounter him there . so , too , with some other feeding grounds , where 
he had at times revealed himself . but all these seemed only his UNK 
stopping - places and ocean - inns , so to speak , not his places of prolonged 
UNK . and where ahab ' s chances of UNK his object have 
hitherto been spoken of , allusion has only been made to whatever 
way - side , UNK , extra prospects were his , ere a particular 
set time or place were attained , when all possibilities would become 
UNK , and , as ahab UNK thought , every possibility the next 
thing to a certainty . that particular set time and place were UNK 
in the one technical phrase - the season - on - the - line . for there and then , 
for several consecutive years , moby dick had been periodically descried , 
lingering in those waters for awhile , as the sun , in its annual round , 
UNK for a UNK interval in any one sign of the zodiac . there 
it was , too , that most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had 
taken place ; there the waves were storied with his UNK ; there also was 
that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive 
to his vengeance . but in the cautious comprehensiveness and UNK 
vigilance with which ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering 
hunt , he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one 
crowning fact above mentioned , however UNK it might be to those 
hopes ; nor in the UNK of his vow could he so UNK his 
UNK heart as to UNK all intervening quest . 
now , the pequod had sailed from nantucket at the very beginning of the 
season - on - the - line . no possible endeavor then could enable her commander 
to make the great passage UNK , double cape horn , and then running 
down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial pacific in time 
to cruise there . therefore , he must wait for the next ensuing season . 
yet the UNK hour of the pequod ' s sailing had , perhaps , been 
correctly selected by ahab , with a view to this very complexion of 
things . because , an interval of three hundred and sixty - five days 
and nights was before him ; an interval which , instead of impatiently 
UNK ashore , he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt ; if by chance 
the white whale , spending his UNK in seas far remote from his 
periodical feeding - grounds , should turn up his wrinkled brow off the 
persian gulf , or in the UNK bay , or china seas , or in any other 
waters haunted by his race . so that UNK , UNK , nor ' - UNK , 
UNK , trades ; any wind but the UNK and UNK , might 
blow moby dick into the UNK UNK - UNK world - circle of the pequod ' s 
circumnavigating wake . 
but granting all this ; yet , regarded UNK and coolly , seems it not 
but a mad idea , this ; that in the broad boundless ocean , one solitary 
whale , even if encountered , should be thought capable of individual 
recognition from his hunter , even as a white - bearded UNK in the 
UNK thoroughfares of constantinople ? yes . for the peculiar 
snow - white brow of moby dick , and his snow - white hump , could not but 
be unmistakable . and have i not UNK the whale , ahab would mutter 
to himself , as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he 
would throw himself back in reveries - UNK him , and shall he escape ? 
his broad fins are bored , and UNK out like a lost sheep ' s ear ! and 
here , his mad mind would run on in a UNK race ; till a weariness 
and UNK of pondering came over him ; and in the open air of the 
deck he would seek to UNK his strength . ah , god ! what UNK 
of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one UNK 
UNK desire . he sleeps with clenched hands ; and wakes with his own 
bloody nails in his palms . 
often , when forced from his hammock by UNK and intolerably vivid 
dreams of the night , which , resuming his own intense thoughts through 
the day , carried them on amid a UNK of phrensies , and whirled them 
round and round and round in his blazing brain , till the very throbbing 
of his life - spot became insufferable anguish ; and when , as was sometimes 
the case , these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its 
base , and a UNK seemed opening in him , from which forked flames and 
lightnings shot up , and accursed fiends UNK him to leap down among 
them ; when this hell in himself UNK beneath him , a wild cry would be 
heard through the ship ; and with UNK eyes ahab would burst from his 
state room , as though escaping from a bed that was on fire . yet these , 
perhaps , instead of being the UNK symptoms of some latent 
UNK , or fright at his own resolve , were but the plainest tokens 
of its intensity . for , at such times , crazy ahab , the UNK , 
UNK UNK hunter of the white whale ; this ahab that had 
gone to his hammock , was not the agent that so caused him to burst from 
it in horror again . the latter was the eternal , living principle or 
soul in him ; and in sleep , being for the time UNK from the 
UNK mind , which at other times employed it for its outer 
UNK or agent , it UNK sought escape from the scorching 
UNK of the frantic thing , of which , for the time , it was no 
longer an integral . but as the mind does not exist unless leagued with 
the soul , therefore it must have been that , in ahab ' s case , yielding up 
all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme purpose ; that purpose , 
by its own sheer UNK of will , forced itself against gods and 
devils into a kind of self - assumed , independent being of its own . nay , 
could grimly live and burn , while the common vitality to which it was 
UNK , fled horror - stricken from the UNK and UNK birth . 
therefore , the tormented spirit that glared out of bodily eyes , when 
what seemed ahab rushed from his room , was for the time but a UNK 
thing , a UNK UNK being , a ray of living light , to be 
sure , but without an object to colour , and therefore a blankness in 
itself . god help thee , old man , thy thoughts have created a creature 
in thee ; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a prometheus ; a 
vulture feeds upon that heart for ever ; that vulture the very creature 
he UNK . 
chapter UNK . the UNK . 
so far as what there may be of a narrative in this book ; and , indeed , as 
indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious particulars 
in the habits of sperm whales , the foregoing chapter , in its earlier 
part , is as important a one as will be found in this volume ; but the 
leading matter of it requires to be still further and more familiarly 
UNK upon , in order to be adequately UNK , and moreover to 
take away any UNK which a profound ignorance of the entire 
subject may induce in some minds , as to the natural UNK of the main 
points of this affair . 
i care not to perform this part of my task methodically ; but shall 
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of 
items , practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman ; and from these 
citations , i take it - the conclusion UNK at will naturally follow of 
itself . 
first : i have personally known three instances where a whale , after 
receiving a harpoon , has effected a complete escape ; and , after an 
interval ( in one instance of three years ) , has been again struck by 
the same hand , and slain ; when the two irons , both marked by the same 
private UNK , have been taken from the body . in the instance where 
three years UNK between the flinging of the two harpoons ; and i 
think it may have been something more than that ; the man who darted 
them happening , in the interval , to go in a trading ship on a voyage to 
africa , went ashore there , joined a discovery party , and penetrated far 
into the interior , where he travelled for a period of nearly two years , 
often endangered by serpents , savages , UNK , poisonous UNK , 
with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart of 
unknown regions . meanwhile , the whale he had struck must also have 
been on its UNK ; no doubt it had thrice UNK the globe , 
UNK with its flanks all the coasts of africa ; but to no purpose . 
this man and this whale again came together , and the one UNK the 
other . i say i , myself , have known three instances similar to this ; that 
is in two of them i saw the whales struck ; and , upon the second attack , 
saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them , afterwards 
taken from the dead fish . in the three - year instance , it so fell out 
that i was in the boat both times , first and last , and the last time 
distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale ' s 
eye , which i had observed there three years previous . i say three years , 
but i am pretty sure it was more than that . here are three instances , 
then , which i personally know the truth of ; but i have heard of many 
other instances from persons whose UNK in the matter there is no 
good ground to UNK . 
secondly : it is well known in the sperm whale fishery , however ignorant 
the world ashore may be of it , that there have been several UNK 
historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at 
distant times and places popularly UNK . why such a whale became 
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily 
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales ; for however peculiar 
in that respect any chance whale may be , they soon put an end to his 
peculiarities by killing him , and boiling him down into a peculiarly 
valuable oil . no : the reason was this : that from the fatal experiences 
of the fishery there hung a terrible UNK of UNK about 
such a whale as there did about UNK UNK , UNK that 
most fishermen were content to UNK him by merely touching their 
tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea , 
without seeking to UNK a more intimate acquaintance . like some 
poor devils ashore that happen to know an UNK great man , they 
make distant UNK salutations to him in the street , lest if they 
pursued the acquaintance further , they might receive a summary thump for 
their presumption . 
but not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual 
UNK - nay , you may call it an ocean - wide UNK ; not only was he 
famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death , 
but he was admitted into all the rights , privileges , and distinctions of 
a name ; had as much a name indeed as UNK or UNK . was it not so , 
o timor tom ! thou famed leviathan , UNK like an iceberg , who so long 
did ' st lurk in the oriental straits of that name , whose spout was oft 
seen from the UNK beach of UNK ? was it not so , o new zealand jack ! 
thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of 
the UNK land ? was it not so , o UNK ! king of japan , whose lofty 
jet they say at times assumed the UNK of a snow - white cross 
against the sky ? was it not so , o don miguel ! thou chilian whale , marked 
like an old UNK with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back ! in plain 
UNK , here are four whales as well known to the UNK of cetacean 
history as UNK or UNK to the UNK scholar . 
but this is not all . new zealand tom and don miguel , after at various 
times UNK great havoc among the boats of different vessels , were 
finally gone in quest of , systematically hunted out , chased and killed 
by valiant whaling captains , who heaved up their anchors with 
that express object as much in view , as in setting out through the 
UNK woods , captain UNK of old had it in his mind to capture 
that notorious murderous savage UNK , the UNK warrior of the 
indian king UNK . 
i do not know where i can find a better place than just here , to make 
mention of one or two other things , which to me seem important , as in 
printed form UNK in all respects the UNK of the 
whole story of the white whale , more especially the catastrophe . for 
this is one of those UNK instances where truth requires full 
as much UNK as error . so ignorant are most landsmen of some of 
the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world , that without 
some hints touching the plain facts , historical and otherwise , of the 
fishery , they might UNK at moby dick as a monstrous fable , or still 
worse and more detestable , a hideous and intolerable UNK . 
first : though most men have some vague flitting ideas of the general 
perils of the grand fishery , yet they have nothing like a fixed , vivid 
UNK of those perils , and the UNK with which they UNK . 
one reason perhaps is , that not one in fifty of the actual disasters and 
UNK by casualties in the fishery , ever finds a public record at home , 
however UNK and immediately forgotten that record . do you suppose 
that that poor fellow there , who this moment perhaps caught by the 
whale - line off the coast of new guinea , is being carried down to the 
bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan - do you suppose that that 
poor fellow ' s name will appear in the UNK UNK you will read 
to - morrow at your breakfast ? no : because the UNK are very irregular 
between here and new guinea . in fact , did you ever hear what might be 
called regular news direct or indirect from new guinea ? yet i tell you 
that upon one particular voyage which i made to the pacific , among many 
others we spoke thirty different ships , every one of which had had a 
death by a whale , some of them more than one , and three that had each 
lost a boat ' s crew . for god ' s sake , be economical with your lamps and 
candles ! not a gallon you burn , but at least one drop of man ' s blood was 
spilled for it . 
secondly : people ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is 
an enormous creature of enormous power ; but i have ever found that when 
narrating to them some specific example of this two - fold enormousness , 
they have significantly complimented me upon my UNK ; when , i 
declare upon my soul , i had no more idea of being facetious than UNK , 
when he wrote the history of the UNK of egypt . 
but UNK the special point i here seek can be UNK upon 
testimony entirely independent of my own . that point is this : the sperm 
whale is in some cases sufficiently UNK , knowing , and judiciously 
malicious , as with direct aforethought to stave in , utterly destroy , and 
sink a large ship ; and what is more , the sperm whale has done it . 
first : in the year 1820 the ship essex , captain pollard , of nantucket , 
was cruising in the pacific ocean . one day she saw spouts , lowered her 
boats , and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales . ere long , several of 
the whales were wounded ; when , suddenly , a very large whale escaping 
from the boats , issued from the shoal , and bore directly down upon the 
ship . dashing his forehead against her hull , he so stove her in , that in 
less than " ten minutes " she settled down and fell over . not a surviving 
plank of her has been seen since . after the severest exposure , part of 
the crew reached the land in their boats . being returned home at last , 
captain pollard once more sailed for the pacific in command of another 
ship , but the gods UNK him again upon unknown rocks and 
breakers ; for the second time his ship was utterly lost , and forthwith 
UNK the sea , he has never UNK it since . at this day captain 
pollard is a UNK of nantucket . i have seen owen chace , who was 
chief mate of the essex at the time of the tragedy ; i have read his 
plain and faithful narrative ; i have conversed with his son ; and all 
this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe . * 
* the following are extracts from chace ' s narrative : " every fact seemed 
to warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which 
directed his operations ; he made two several attacks upon the ship , at 
a short interval between them , both of which , according to their 
direction , were calculated to do us the most injury , by being made 
ahead , and thereby UNK the speed of the two objects for the shock ; 
to effect which , the exact UNK which he made were necessary . his 
aspect was most horrible , and such as indicated UNK and fury . he 
came directly from the shoal which we had just before entered , and in 
which we had struck three of his companions , as if UNK with revenge 
for their UNK . " again : " at all events , the whole circumstances 
taken together , all happening before my own eyes , and producing , at the 
time , impressions in my mind of decided , calculating mischief , on the 
part of the whale ( many of which impressions i cannot now recall ) , 
induce me to be satisfied that i am correct in my opinion . " 
here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship , during 
a black night in an open boat , when almost despairing of reaching any 
hospitable shore . " the dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing ; the 
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest , or dashed 
upon hidden rocks , with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful 
contemplation , seemed scarcely entitled to a moment ' s thought ; the 
dismal looking wreck , and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale , 
wholly UNK my reflections , until day again made its appearance . " 
in another place - UNK . UNK , - he speaks of " the mysterious and mortal attack 
of the animal . " 
secondly : the ship UNK , also of nantucket , was in the year 1807 
UNK lost off the azores by a similar onset , but the authentic 
particulars of this catastrophe i have never chanced to encounter , 
though from the whale hunters i have now and then heard UNK allusions 
to it . 
UNK : some eighteen or twenty years ago commodore j - - , then 
commanding an american sloop - of - war of the first class , happened to be 
dining with a party of whaling captains , on board a nantucket ship in 
the harbor of UNK , sandwich islands . conversation turning upon whales , 
the commodore was pleased to be UNK touching the amazing strength 
ascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present . he peremptorily 
denied for example , that any whale could so smite his stout sloop - of - war 
as to cause her to leak so much as a UNK . very good ; but there 
is more coming . some weeks after , the commodore set sail in this 
impregnable craft for UNK . but he was stopped on the way by a 
portly sperm whale , that begged a few moments ' confidential business 
with him . that business UNK in fetching the commodore ' s craft such 
a UNK , that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest 
port to heave down and UNK . i am not superstitious , but i consider 
the commodore ' s interview with that whale as UNK . was not UNK 
of UNK converted from UNK by a similar fright ? i tell you , the 
sperm whale will stand no nonsense . 
i will now refer you to langsdorff ' s voyages for a little circumstance 
in point , peculiarly interesting to the writer UNK . langsdorff , you 
must know by the way , was attached to the russian admiral krusenstern ' s 
famous discovery expedition in the beginning of the present century . 
captain langsdorff thus begins his UNK chapter : 
" by the UNK of may our ship was ready to sail , and the next day 
we were out in the open sea , on our way to UNK . the weather was very 
clear and fine , but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on 
our UNK clothing . for some days we had very little wind ; it was not 
till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the UNK sprang up . an 
uncommon large whale , the body of which was larger than the ship itself , 
lay almost at the surface of the water , but was not perceived by any 
one on board till the moment when the ship , which was in full sail , 
was almost upon him , so that it was impossible to prevent its striking 
against him . we were thus placed in the most imminent danger , as this 
gigantic creature , setting up its back , raised the ship three feet at 
least out of the water . the masts reeled , and the sails fell altogether , 
while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck , concluding 
that we had struck upon some rock ; instead of this we saw the monster 
sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity . captain d ' wolf 
applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel 
had received any UNK from the shock , but we found that very happily 
it had escaped entirely uninjured . " 
now , the captain d ' wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship in 
question , is a new UNK , who , after a long life of unusual 
adventures as a sea - captain , this day resides in the village of 
UNK near UNK . i have the honour of being a UNK of his . i 
have particularly questioned him concerning this passage in langsdorff . 
he UNK every word . the ship , however , was by no means a large 
one : a russian craft built on the UNK coast , and purchased by my 
UNK after UNK away the vessel in which he sailed from home . 
in that up and down UNK book of old - fashioned adventure , so full , too , 
of honest wonders - the voyage of lionel UNK , one of ancient UNK ' s 
old UNK - i found a little matter set down so like that just quoted 
from langsdorff , that i cannot forbear inserting it here for a 
UNK example , if such be needed . 
lionel , it seems , was on his way to " john UNK , " as he calls 
the modern UNK UNK . " in our way thither , " he says , " about four 
o ' clock in the morning , when we were about one hundred and fifty leagues 
from the main of america , our ship felt a terrible shock , which put our 
men in such consternation that they could hardly tell where they were 
or what to think ; but every one began to prepare for death . and , indeed , 
the shock was so sudden and violent , that we took it for granted the 
ship had struck against a rock ; but when the amazement was a little 
over , we cast the lead , and sounded , but found no ground . . . . . the 
UNK of the shock made the guns leap in their UNK , and 
several of the men were shaken out of their UNK . captain davis , who 
lay with his head on a gun , was thrown out of his cabin ! " lionel then 
goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake , and seems to UNK 
the UNK by stating that a great earthquake , somewhere about 
that time , did actually do great mischief along the spanish land . but 
i should not much wonder if , in the darkness of that early hour of the 
morning , the shock was after all caused by an unseen whale UNK 
UNK the hull from beneath . 
i might proceed with several more examples , one way or another known to 
me , of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale . in more 
than one instance , he has been known , not only to chase the UNK 
boats back to their ships , but to pursue the ship itself , and long 
withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks . the english ship 
UNK hall can tell a story on that head ; and , as for his strength , 
let me say , that there have been examples where the lines attached to a 
running sperm whale have , in a calm , been transferred to the ship , and 
secured there ; the whale towing her great hull through the water , as a 
horse walks off with a UNK . again , it is very often observed that , if 
the sperm whale , once struck , is allowed time to UNK , he then acts , 
not so often with blind rage , as with wilful , deliberate UNK of 
destruction to his pursuers ; nor is it without conveying some UNK 
UNK of his character , that upon being attacked he will frequently 
open his mouth , and retain it in that dread expansion for several 
consecutive minutes . but i must be content with only one more and a 
concluding illustration ; a remarkable and most significant one , by which 
you will not fail to see , that not only is the most marvellous event in 
this book UNK by plain facts of the present day , but that these 
marvels ( like all marvels ) are mere UNK of the ages ; so that for 
the UNK time we say UNK with solomon - verily there is nothing new 
under the sun . 
in the UNK christian century lived procopius , a christian UNK 
of constantinople , in the days when justinian was emperor and UNK 
general . as many know , he wrote the history of his own times , a work 
every way of uncommon value . by the best authorities , he has always been 
considered a most UNK and UNK historian , except in 
some one or two particulars , not at all UNK the matter presently 
to be mentioned . 
now , in this history of his , procopius UNK that , during the term 
of his UNK at constantinople , a great sea - monster was captured 
in the neighboring propontis , or sea of UNK , after having destroyed 
vessels at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fifty 
years . a fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be 
gainsaid . nor is there any reason it should be . of what precise species 
this sea - monster was , is not mentioned . but as he destroyed ships , as 
well as for other reasons , he must have been a whale ; and i am strongly 
inclined to think a sperm whale . and i will tell you why . for a long 
time i fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the 
mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it . even now i am 
certain that those seas are not , and perhaps never can be , in the 
present constitution of things , a place for his UNK gregarious 
resort . but further investigations have recently proved to me , that in 
modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the 
sperm whale in the mediterranean . i am told , on good authority , that 
on the barbary coast , a commodore davis of the british navy found 
the skeleton of a sperm whale . now , as a vessel of war readily passes 
through the dardanelles , hence a sperm whale could , by the same route , 
pass out of the mediterranean into the propontis . 
in the propontis , as far as i can learn , none of that peculiar substance 
called brit is to be found , the UNK of the right whale . but i have 
every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale - squid or 
cuttle - fish - lurks at the bottom of that sea , because large creatures , 
but by no means the largest of that sort , have been found at its 
surface . if , then , you properly put these statements together , and 
reason upon them a bit , you will clearly perceive that , according to all 
human reasoning , procopius ' s sea - monster , that for half a century stove 
the ships of a roman emperor , must in all probability have been a sperm 
whale . 
chapter UNK . surmises . 
though , consumed with the hot fire of his purpose , ahab in all his 
thoughts and UNK ever had in view the ultimate capture of moby dick ; 
though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal UNK to that one 
passion ; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and long 
UNK far too wedded to a fiery whaleman ' s ways , altogether to 
abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage . or at least if 
this were otherwise , there were not wanting other motives much more 
UNK with him . it would be UNK too much , perhaps , even 
considering his monomania , to hint that his vindictiveness towards the 
white whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all 
sperm whales , and that the more monsters he UNK by so much the more he 
UNK the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would 
prove to be the hated one he hunted . but if such an UNK be indeed 
UNK , there were still additional considerations which , though 
not so strictly according with the wildness of his UNK passion , yet 
were by no means incapable of swaying him . 
to UNK his object ahab must use tools ; and of all tools used in 
the shadow of the moon , men are most apt to get out of order . he knew , 
for example , that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was 
over starbuck , yet that ascendency did not cover the complete spiritual 
man any more than mere corporeal superiority UNK intellectual 
mastership ; for to the purely spiritual , the intellectual but stand in a 
sort of corporeal UNK . starbuck ' s body and starbuck ' s UNK will 
were ahab ' s , so long as ahab kept his UNK at starbuck ' s brain ; still 
he knew that for all this the chief mate , in his soul , abhorred his 
captain ' s quest , and could he , would UNK UNK himself from 
it , or even UNK it . it might be that a long interval would UNK 
ere the white whale was seen . during that long interval starbuck 
would ever be apt to fall into open UNK of rebellion against his 
captain ' s UNK , unless some ordinary , prudential , UNK 
influences were brought to bear upon him . not only that , but the subtle 
insanity of ahab respecting moby dick was UNK more significantly 
manifested than in his superlative sense and UNK in foreseeing 
that , for the present , the hunt should in some way be stripped of that 
strange UNK UNK which naturally invested it ; that 
the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the UNK 
background ( for few men ' s courage is proof against UNK meditation 
unrelieved by action ) ; that when they stood their long night watches , 
his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than moby 
dick . for however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the 
announcement of his quest ; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less 
capricious and UNK - they live in the varying outer weather , and 
they inhale its UNK - and when retained for any object remote and 
blank in the pursuit , however UNK of life and passion in the 
end , it is above all things requisite that temporary UNK and 
UNK should UNK and hold them UNK suspended for the 
final dash . 
nor was ahab unmindful of another thing . in times of strong emotion 
mankind disdain all base considerations ; but such times are UNK . 
the permanent UNK condition of the manufactured man , thought 
ahab , is UNK . granting that the white whale fully UNK the 
hearts of this my savage crew , and playing round their UNK even 
breeds a certain generous knight - UNK in them , still , while for the 
love of it they give chase to moby dick , they must also have food 
for their more common , daily appetites . for even the high lifted and 
UNK UNK of old times were not content to UNK two 
thousand miles of land to fight for their holy UNK , without 
UNK UNK , picking pockets , and gaining other pious 
UNK by the way . had they been strictly held to their one final 
and romantic object - that final and romantic object , too many would have 
turned from in UNK . i will not strip these men , thought ahab , of all 
hopes of cash - aye , cash . they may scorn cash now ; but let some months 
go by , and no UNK promise of it to them , and then this same 
UNK cash all at once UNK in them , this same cash would soon 
UNK ahab . 
nor was there wanting still another UNK motive more related 
to ahab personally . having UNK , it is probable , and perhaps 
somewhat UNK revealed the prime but private purpose of the 
pequod ' s voyage , ahab was now entirely conscious that , in so doing , 
he had indirectly laid himself open to the UNK charge of 
usurpation ; and with perfect UNK , both moral and UNK , his crew 
if so disposed , and to that end competent , could refuse all further 
obedience to him , and even violently wrest from him the command . from 
even the UNK hinted UNK of usurpation , and the possible 
consequences of such a UNK impression gaining ground , ahab must 
of course have been most anxious to UNK himself . that protection 
could only consist in his own UNK brain and heart and hand , 
backed by a heedful , closely calculating attention to every minute 
atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be subjected 
to . 
for all these reasons then , and others perhaps too UNK to be 
verbally developed here , ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good 
degree continue true to the natural , nominal purpose of the pequod ' s 
voyage ; observe all customary usages ; and not only that , but force 
himself to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general 
pursuit of his profession . 
be all this as it may , his voice was now often heard hailing the three 
mast - heads and UNK them to keep a bright look - out , and not UNK 
reporting even a porpoise . this vigilance was not long without reward . 
chapter UNK . the mat - maker . 
it was a UNK , sultry afternoon ; the seamen were lazily lounging 
about the decks , or vacantly gazing over into the lead - coloured waters . 
queequeg and i were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword - mat , 
for an additional lashing to our boat . so still and subdued and yet 
somehow UNK was all the scene , and such an incantation of reverie 
lurked in the air , that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own 
invisible self . 
i was the UNK or page of queequeg , while busy at the mat . as i 
kept passing and UNK the filling or woof of UNK between 
the long yarns of the warp , using my own hand for the shuttle , and as 
queequeg , standing sideways , ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword 
between the threads , and UNK looking off upon the water , carelessly and 
unthinkingly drove home every yarn : i say so strange a dreaminess did 
there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea , only broken by 
the UNK dull sound of the sword , that it seemed as if this were 
the loom of time , and i myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving 
and weaving away at the fates . there lay the fixed threads of the warp 
subject to but one single , ever returning , unchanging vibration , and 
that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise UNK 
of other threads with its own . this warp seemed necessity ; and here , 
thought i , with my own hand i UNK my own shuttle and UNK my own 
UNK into these unalterable threads . meantime , queequeg ' s impulsive , 
indifferent sword , sometimes hitting the woof slantingly , or UNK , 
or strongly , or UNK , as the case might be ; and by this difference 
in the concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final 
aspect of the completed fabric ; this savage ' s sword , thought i , 
which thus finally shapes and UNK both warp and woof ; this 
easy , indifferent sword must be chance - aye , chance , free will , and 
necessity - nowise incompatible - all UNK working together . 
the straight warp of necessity , not to be UNK from its ultimate 
course - its every alternating vibration , indeed , only tending to that ; 
free will still free to UNK her shuttle between given threads ; and 
chance , though UNK in its play within the right lines of 
necessity , and sideways in its motions directed by free will , though 
thus UNK to by both , chance by turns rules either , and has the 
last UNK blow at events . 
thus we were weaving and weaving away when i started at a sound so 
strange , long drawn , and UNK wild and unearthly , that the ball 
of free will dropped from my hand , and i stood gazing up at the clouds 
whence that voice dropped like a wing . high aloft in the cross - trees was 
that mad gay - header , tashtego . his body was reaching eagerly forward , 
his hand stretched out like a wand , and at brief sudden intervals he 
continued his cries . to be sure the same sound was that very moment 
perhaps being heard all over the seas , from hundreds of whalemen ' s 
look - outs perched as high in the air ; but from few of those lungs could 
that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous cadence as from 
tashtego the indian ' s . 
as he stood hovering over you half suspended in air , so wildly and 
eagerly peering towards the horizon , you would have thought him some 
prophet or UNK beholding the shadows of fate , and by those wild cries 
announcing their coming . 
" there she blows ! there ! there ! there ! she blows ! she blows ! " 
" where - away ? " 
" on the lee - beam , about two miles off ! a school of them ! " 
instantly all was commotion . 
the sperm whale blows as a clock UNK , with the same undeviating and 
reliable UNK . and thereby whalemen distinguish this fish from 
other tribes of his UNK . 
" there go flukes ! " was now the cry from tashtego ; and the whales 
disappeared . 
" quick , steward ! " cried ahab . " time ! time ! " 
dough - boy hurried below , glanced at the watch , and reported the exact 
minute to ahab . 
the ship was now kept away from the wind , and she went gently rolling 
before it . tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading to 
leeward , we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance of 
our bows . for that singular craft at times evinced by the sperm whale 
when , sounding with his head in one direction , he nevertheless , while 
concealed beneath the surface , mills round , and swiftly swims off in the 
opposite quarter - this UNK of his could not now be in action ; 
for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by tashtego had 
been in any way alarmed , or indeed knew at all of our vicinity . one of 
the men selected for UNK - that is , those not appointed to the 
boats , by this time relieved the indian at the main - mast head . the 
sailors at the fore and mizzen had come down ; the line tubs were fixed 
in their places ; the cranes were thrust out ; the UNK was backed , 
and the three boats swung over the sea like three UNK UNK over 
high cliffs . outside of the bulwarks their eager crews with one hand 
clung to the rail , while one foot was expectantly poised on the gunwale . 
so look the long line of man - of - war ' s men about to throw themselves on 
board an enemy ' s ship . 
but at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took 
every eye from the whale . with a start all glared at dark ahab , who was 
surrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air . 
chapter UNK . the first lowering . 
the phantoms , for so they then seemed , were flitting on the other side 
of the deck , and , with a noiseless celerity , were casting loose the 
tackles and bands of the boat which swung there . this boat had always 
been deemed one of the spare boats , though technically called the 
captain ' s , on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter . the 
figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart , with one white 
tooth UNK UNK from its steel - like lips . a rumpled chinese 
jacket of black cotton UNK invested him , with wide black trowsers 
of the same dark stuff . but strangely crowning this UNK was a 
glistening white plaited turban , the living hair braided and coiled 
round and round upon his head . less swart in aspect , the companions of 
this figure were of that vivid , tiger - yellow complexion peculiar to 
some of the aboriginal natives of the UNK ; - a race notorious for 
a certain UNK of UNK , and by some honest white mariners 
supposed to be the paid UNK and secret confidential UNK on the 
water of the devil , their lord , whose counting - room they suppose to be 
elsewhere . 
while yet the wondering ship ' s company were gazing upon these strangers , 
ahab cried out to the white - turbaned old man at their head , " all ready 
there , fedallah ? " 
" ready , " was the half - hissed reply . 
" lower away then ; d ' ye hear ? " shouting across the deck . " lower away 
there , i say . " 
such was the thunder of his voice , that spite of their amazement the men 
sprang over the rail ; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks ; with a 
wallow , the three boats dropped into the sea ; while , with a dexterous , 
off - handed daring , unknown in any other vocation , the sailors , 
goat - like , leaped down the rolling ship ' s side into the tossed boats 
below . 
hardly had they pulled out from under the ship ' s lee , when a fourth 
keel , coming from the windward side , pulled round under the stern , and 
showed the five strangers rowing ahab , who , standing erect in the stern , 
loudly hailed starbuck , stubb , and flask , to spread themselves widely , 
so as to cover a large expanse of water . but with all their eyes again 
riveted upon the swart fedallah and his crew , the inmates of the other 
boats UNK not the command . 
" captain ahab ? - " said starbuck . 
" spread yourselves , " cried ahab ; " give way , all four boats . thou , flask , 
pull out more to leeward ! " 
" aye , aye , sir , " cheerily cried little king - post , sweeping round 
his great steering oar . " lay back ! " addressing his crew . 
" there ! - there ! - there again ! there she blows right ahead , boys ! - lay 
back ! " 
" never heed yonder yellow boys , archy . " 
" oh , i don ' t mind ' em , sir , " said archy ; " i knew it all before now . 
didn ' t i hear ' em in the hold ? and didn ' t i tell cabaco here of it ? what 
say ye , cabaco ? they are UNK , mr . flask . " 
" pull , pull , my fine hearts - alive ; pull , my children ; pull , my little 
ones , " UNK and UNK sighed stubb to his crew , some of whom 
still showed signs of uneasiness . " why don ' t you break your UNK , 
my boys ? what is it you stare at ? those chaps in yonder boat ? UNK ! they 
are only five more hands come to help us - never mind from where - the 
more the UNK . pull , then , do pull ; never mind the UNK - devils 
are good fellows enough . so , so ; there you are now ; that ' s the stroke 
for a thousand pounds ; that ' s the stroke to sweep the UNK ! hurrah 
for the gold cup of sperm oil , my heroes ! three cheers , men - all hearts 
alive ! easy , easy ; don ' t be in a hurry - don ' t be in a hurry . why don ' t 
you snap your oars , you UNK ? bite something , you dogs ! so , so , so , 
then : - softly , softly ! that ' s it - that ' s it ! long and strong . give way 
there , give way ! the devil fetch ye , ye UNK UNK ; ye are 
all asleep . stop UNK , ye sleepers , and pull . pull , will ye ? pull , 
can ' t ye ? pull , won ' t ye ? why in the name of UNK and ginger - cakes 
don ' t ye pull ? - pull and break something ! pull , and start your eyes out ! 
here ! " UNK out the sharp knife from his girdle ; " every mother ' s son 
of ye draw his knife , and pull with the blade between his teeth . that ' s 
it - that ' s it . now ye do something ; that looks like it , my steel - bits . 
start her - start her , my silver - UNK ! start her , marling - spikes ! " 
stubb ' s UNK to his crew is given here at large , because he had 
rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general , and especially in 
UNK the religion of rowing . but you must not suppose from this 
specimen of his UNK that he ever flew into downright UNK 
with his congregation . not at all ; and therein UNK his chief 
peculiarity . he would say the most terrific things to his crew , in a 
tone so strangely UNK of fun and fury , and the fury seemed so 
calculated merely as a UNK to the fun , that no oarsman could hear such 
queer UNK without pulling for dear life , and yet pulling for 
the mere joke of the thing . besides he all the time looked so easy and 
indolent himself , so UNK UNK his steering - oar , and so broadly 
gaped - open - mouthed at times - that the mere sight of such a yawning 
commander , by sheer force of contrast , acted like a charm upon the crew . 
then again , stubb was one of those odd sort of UNK , whose jollity 
is sometimes so curiously ambiguous , as to put all UNK on their 
guard in the matter of obeying them . 
in obedience to a sign from ahab , starbuck was now pulling obliquely 
across stubb ' s bow ; and when for a minute or so the two boats were 
pretty near to each other , stubb hailed the mate . 
" mr . starbuck ! larboard boat there , ahoy ! a word with ye , sir , if ye 
please ! " 
" halloa ! " returned starbuck , turning round not a single inch as he 
spoke ; still earnestly but UNK UNK his crew ; his face set 
like a UNK from stubb ' s . 
" what think ye of those yellow boys , sir ! " 
" UNK on board , somehow , before the ship sailed . ( strong , strong , 
boys ! ) " in a whisper to his crew , then speaking out loud again : " a sad 
business , mr . stubb ! ( UNK her , UNK her , my lads ! ) but never mind , 
mr . stubb , all for the best . let all your crew pull strong , come what 
will . ( spring , my men , spring ! ) there ' s UNK of sperm ahead , mr . 
stubb , and that ' s what ye came for . ( pull , my boys ! ) sperm , sperm ' s the 
play ! this at least is duty ; duty and profit hand in hand . " 
" aye , aye , i thought as much , " soliloquized stubb , when the boats 
UNK , " as soon as i UNK eye on ' em , i thought so . aye , and that ' s 
what he went into the after hold for , so often , as dough - boy long 
suspected . they were hidden down there . the white whale ' s at the bottom 
of it . well , well , so be it ! can ' t be helped ! all right ! give way , men ! 
it ain ' t the white whale to - day ! give way ! " 
now the UNK of these outlandish strangers at such a critical instant 
as the lowering of the boats from the deck , this had not unreasonably 
awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship ' s 
company ; but archy ' s fancied discovery having some time previous got 
abroad among them , though indeed not credited then , this had in some 
small measure prepared them for the event . it took off the extreme edge 
of their wonder ; and so what with all this and stubb ' s confident way 
of UNK for their appearance , they were for the time UNK from 
superstitious UNK ; though the affair still left abundant room for 
all manner of wild UNK as to dark ahab ' s precise UNK in the 
matter from the beginning . for me , i silently recalled the mysterious 
shadows i had seen creeping on board the pequod during the dim nantucket 
dawn , as well as the enigmatical UNK of the unaccountable elijah . 
meantime , ahab , out of hearing of his officers , having UNK the 
furthest to windward , was still ranging ahead of the other boats ; a 
circumstance UNK how potent a crew was pulling him . those tiger 
yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone ; like five 
trip - hammers they rose and fell with regular UNK of strength , which 
periodically started the boat along the water like a horizontal burst 
UNK out of a mississippi steamer . as for fedallah , who was seen 
pulling the harpooneer oar , he had thrown aside his black jacket , and 
displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the 
gunwale , clearly cut against the alternating UNK of the watery 
horizon ; while at the other end of the boat ahab , with one arm , like a 
UNK ' s , thrown half backward into the air , as if to UNK any 
tendency to trip ; ahab was seen steadily UNK his steering oar as in 
a thousand boat UNK ere the white whale had torn him . all at once 
the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained fixed , 
while the boat ' s five oars were seen simultaneously peaked . boat and 
crew sat motionless on the sea . instantly the three spread boats in the 
rear paused on their way . the whales had irregularly settled bodily 
down into the blue , thus giving no distantly discernible token of the 
movement , though from his closer vicinity ahab had observed it . 
" every man look out along his oars ! " cried starbuck . " thou , queequeg , 
stand up ! " 
UNK springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow , the savage 
stood erect there , and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the 
spot where the chase had last been descried . likewise upon the extreme 
stern of the boat where it was also UNK UNK level with 
the gunwale , starbuck himself was seen coolly and UNK balancing 
himself to the jerking UNK of his chip of a craft , and silently 
eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea . 
not very far distant flask ' s boat was also lying UNK still ; its 
commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead , a stout 
sort of post rooted in the keel , and rising some two feet above the 
level of the stern UNK . it is used for catching turns with the 
whale line . its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man ' s hand , 
and standing upon such a base as that , flask seemed perched at the 
mast - head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks . but little 
king - post was small and short , and at the same time little king - post was 
full of a large and tall ambition , so that this loggerhead stand - point 
of his did by no means satisfy king - post . 
" i can ' t see three seas off ; tip us up an oar there , and let me on to 
that . " 
upon this , daggoo , with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his 
way , swiftly slid aft , and then UNK himself UNK his lofty 
shoulders for a UNK . 
" good a mast - head as any , sir . will you mount ? " 
" that i will , and thank ye very much , my fine fellow ; only i wish you 
fifty feet UNK . " 
whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the 
boat , the gigantic negro , stooping a little , presented his flat palm to 
flask ' s foot , and then putting flask ' s hand on his hearse - plumed head 
and bidding him spring as he himself should toss , with one dexterous 
fling landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders . and here was 
flask now standing , daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with a 
UNK to lean against and steady himself by . 
at any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous 
UNK of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect 
posture in his boat , even when pitched about by the most UNK 
UNK and cross - running seas . still more strange to see him UNK 
perched upon the loggerhead itself , under such circumstances . but the 
sight of little flask mounted upon gigantic daggoo was yet more curious ; 
for UNK himself with a cool , indifferent , easy , UNK of , 
barbaric majesty , the noble negro to every roll of the sea UNK 
rolled his fine form . on his broad back , UNK - haired flask seemed 
a snow - UNK . the bearer looked nobler than the rider . though truly 
vivacious , tumultuous , ostentatious little flask would now and then 
stamp with impatience ; but not one added heave did he thereby give to 
the negro ' s lordly chest . so have i seen passion and vanity UNK the 
living magnanimous earth , but the earth did not UNK her tides and her 
seasons for that . 
meanwhile stubb , the third mate , betrayed no such far - gazing 
UNK . the whales might have made one of their regular soundings , 
not a temporary dive from mere fright ; and if that were the case , 
stubb , as his wont in such cases , it seems , was resolved to solace the 
UNK interval with his pipe . he withdrew it from his UNK , 
where he always wore it UNK like a feather . he loaded it , and rammed 
home the loading with his thumb - end ; but hardly had he UNK his match 
across the rough UNK of his hand , when tashtego , his harpooneer , 
whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars , suddenly 
dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat , crying out in a 
quick UNK of hurry , " down , down all , and give way ! - there they are ! " 
to a landsman , no whale , nor any sign of a herring , would have been 
visible at that moment ; nothing but a troubled bit of UNK white 
water , and thin scattered puffs of vapour hovering over it , and 
UNK blowing off to leeward , like the confused scud from white 
rolling billows . the air around suddenly vibrated and UNK , as it 
were , like the air over intensely heated plates of iron . beneath this 
atmospheric waving and curling , and partially beneath a thin layer of 
water , also , the whales were swimming . seen in advance of all the other 
indications , the puffs of vapour they spouted , seemed their UNK 
UNK and detached flying outriders . 
all four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled 
water and air . but it bade fair to UNK them ; it flew on and on , 
as a mass of UNK bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the 
hills . 
" pull , pull , my good boys , " said starbuck , in the lowest possible but 
UNK concentrated whisper to his men ; while the sharp fixed glance 
from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow , almost seemed as two 
visible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses . he did not say much 
to his crew , though , nor did his crew say anything to him . only the 
silence of the boat was at intervals UNK pierced by one of his 
peculiar whispers , now UNK with command , now soft with entreaty . 
how different the loud little king - post . " sing out and say something , 
my hearties . roar and pull , my thunderbolts ! beach me , beach me on their 
black backs , boys ; only do that for me , and i ' ll sign over to you my 
martha ' s vineyard plantation , boys ; including wife and children , boys . 
lay me on - lay me on ! o lord , lord ! but i shall go stark , staring mad ! 
see ! see that white water ! " and so shouting , he pulled his hat from his 
head , and stamped up and down on it ; then picking it up , flirted it far 
off upon the sea ; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat ' s 
stern like a crazed colt from the prairie . 
" look at that chap now , " UNK UNK stubb , who , with his 
UNK short pipe , mechanically retained between his teeth , at a 
short distance , followed after - " he ' s got fits , that flask has . fits ? 
yes , give him fits - that ' s the very word - pitch fits into ' em . UNK , 
UNK , hearts - alive . pudding for supper , you know ; - merry ' s the word . 
pull , UNK - pull , UNK - pull , all . but what the devil are you 
hurrying about ? softly , softly , and steadily , my men . only pull , and 
keep pulling ; nothing more . crack all your UNK , and bite your 
knives in two - that ' s all . take it easy - why don ' t ye take it easy , i 
say , and burst all your livers and lungs ! " 
but what it was that inscrutable ahab said to that tiger - yellow crew of 
his - these were words best omitted here ; for you live under the blessed 
light of the UNK land . only the infidel sharks in the audacious 
seas may give ear to such words , when , with UNK brow , and eyes of 
red murder , and foam - glued lips , ahab leaped after his prey . 
meanwhile , all the boats tore on . the repeated specific allusions of 
flask to " that whale , " as he called the UNK monster which 
he declared to be incessantly UNK his boat ' s bow with its 
tail - these allusions of his were at times so vivid and life - like , that 
they would cause some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look 
over the shoulder . but this was against all rule ; for the oarsmen 
must put out their eyes , and ram a skewer through their necks ; usage 
pronouncing that they must have no organs but ears , and no limbs but 
arms , in these critical moments . 
it was a sight full of quick wonder and awe ! the vast swells of the 
omnipotent sea ; the surging , hollow roar they made , as they rolled along 
the eight gunwales , like gigantic bowls in a boundless UNK - green ; 
the brief suspended agony of the boat , as it would tip for an instant on 
the knife - like edge of the sharper waves , that almost seemed threatening 
to cut it in two ; the sudden profound dip into the watery UNK and 
hollows ; the keen UNK and UNK to gain the top of the opposite 
hill ; the headlong , UNK - like slide down its other side ; - all these , 
with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers , and the shuddering gasps 
of the oarsmen , with the wondrous sight of the ivory pequod bearing 
down upon her boats with outstretched sails , like a wild hen after her 
screaming UNK ; - all this was UNK . 
not the UNK UNK , marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever 
heat of his first battle ; not the dead man ' s ghost encountering the 
first unknown phantom in the other world ; - neither of these can feel 
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does , who for the first 
time finds himself pulling into the charmed , churned circle of the 
hunted sperm whale . 
the dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and more 
visible , owing to the increasing darkness of the UNK cloud - shadows 
flung upon the sea . the jets of vapour no longer blended , but tilted 
everywhere to right and left ; the whales seemed separating their wakes . 
the boats were pulled more apart ; starbuck giving chase to three whales 
running dead to leeward . our sail was now set , and , with the still 
rising wind , we rushed along ; the boat going with such madness through 
the water , that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to 
escape being torn from the row - locks . 
soon we were running through a UNK wide veil of mist ; neither ship 
nor boat to be seen . 
" give way , men , " whispered starbuck , drawing still further aft the sheet 
of his sail ; " there is time to kill a fish yet before the squall comes . 
there ' s white water again ! - close to ! spring ! " 
soon after , two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted 
that the other boats had got fast ; but hardly were they overheard , when 
with a lightning - like hurtling whisper starbuck said : " stand up ! " and 
queequeg , harpoon in hand , sprang to his feet . 
though not one of the oarsmen was then facing the life and death peril 
so close to them ahead , yet with their eyes on the intense countenance 
of the mate in the stern of the boat , they knew that the imminent 
instant had come ; they heard , too , an enormous wallowing sound as of 
fifty elephants stirring in their UNK . meanwhile the boat was still 
booming through the mist , the waves curling and hissing around us like 
the erected crests of enraged serpents . 
" that ' s his hump . there , there , give it to him ! " whispered starbuck . 
a short rushing sound leaped out of the boat ; it was the darted iron of 
queequeg . then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push from 
astern , while forward the boat seemed striking on a UNK ; the sail 
collapsed and UNK ; a gush of scalding vapour shot up near by ; 
something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us . the whole 
crew were half UNK as they were tossed helter - skelter into the 
white UNK cream of the squall . squall , whale , and harpoon had all 
blended together ; and the whale , merely grazed by the iron , escaped . 
though completely UNK , the boat was nearly unharmed . swimming round 
it we picked up the floating oars , and lashing them across the gunwale , 
tumbled back to our places . there we sat up to our knees in the sea , the 
water covering every rib and plank , so that to our downward gazing eyes 
the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom 
of the ocean . 
the wind increased to a howl ; the waves dashed their UNK together ; 
the whole squall roared , forked , and UNK around us like a white 
fire upon the prairie , in which , UNK , we were burning ; immortal 
in these jaws of death ! in vain we hailed the other boats ; as well roar 
to the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those 
boats in that storm . meanwhile the driving scud , rack , and mist , grew 
darker with the shadows of night ; no sign of the ship could be seen . 
the rising sea forbade all attempts to UNK out the boat . the oars were 
useless as UNK , performing now the office of life - UNK . 
so , cutting the lashing of the UNK match UNK , after many failures 
starbuck contrived to UNK the lamp in the lantern ; then stretching 
it on a waif pole , handed it to queequeg as the standard - bearer of this 
forlorn hope . there , then , he sat , holding up that UNK candle in 
the heart of that almighty UNK . there , then , he sat , the sign 
and symbol of a man without faith , hopelessly holding up hope in the 
midst of despair . 
wet , drenched through , and shivering cold , despairing of ship or boat , 
we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on . the mist still spread over 
the sea , the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat . 
suddenly queequeg started to his feet , UNK his hand to his ear . 
we all heard a faint creaking , as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by 
the storm . the sound came nearer and nearer ; the thick UNK were dimly 
parted by a huge , vague form . affrighted , we all sprang into the sea as 
the ship at last loomed into view , bearing right down upon us within a 
distance of not much more than its length . 
floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat , as for one instant it 
tossed and gaped beneath the ship ' s bows like a chip at the base of a 
cataract ; and then the vast hull rolled over it , and it was seen no 
more till it came up weltering astern . again we swam for it , were dashed 
against it by the seas , and were at last taken up and safely landed on 
board . ere the squall came close to , the other boats had cut loose from 
their fish and returned to the ship in good time . the ship had given us 
up , but was still cruising , if UNK it might light upon some token of 
our perishing , - an oar or a lance pole . 
chapter UNK . the hyena . 
there are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed affair 
we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast practical 
joke , though the UNK UNK he but dimly UNK , and more than 
suspects that the joke is at nobody ' s expense but his own . however , 
nothing UNK , and nothing seems worth while UNK . he bolts 
down all events , all UNK , and UNK , and UNK , all hard 
things visible and invisible , never mind how UNK ; as an UNK of 
potent UNK UNK down UNK and gun UNK . and as for small 
difficulties and UNK , prospects of sudden disaster , peril of 
life and limb ; all these , and death itself , seem to him only UNK , 
good - natured UNK , and jolly UNK in the side bestowed by the unseen 
and unaccountable old UNK . that odd sort of UNK mood i am speaking 
of , comes over a man only in some time of extreme UNK ; it comes 
in the very midst of his earnestness , so that what just before might 
have seemed to him a thing most momentous , now seems but a part of the 
general joke . there is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this 
free and easy sort of genial , desperado philosophy ; and with it i now 
regarded this whole voyage of the pequod , and the great white whale its 
object . 
" queequeg , " said i , when they had dragged me , the last man , to the deck , 
and i was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water ; 
" queequeg , my fine friend , does this sort of thing often happen ? " 
without much emotion , though soaked through just like me , he gave me to 
understand that such things did often happen . 
" mr . stubb , " said i , turning to that worthy , who , buttoned up in his 
oil - jacket , was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain ; " mr . stubb , i 
think i have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met , our chief 
mate , mr . starbuck , is by far the most careful and prudent . i suppose 
then , that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a UNK 
squall is the height of a whaleman ' s UNK ? " 
" certain . i ' ve lowered for whales from a UNK ship in a gale off cape 
horn . " 
" mr . flask , " said i , turning to little king - post , who was standing close 
by ; " you are experienced in these things , and i am not . will you tell 
me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery , mr . flask , for an 
oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back - foremost into death ' s 
jaws ? " 
" can ' t you twist that smaller ? " said flask . " yes , that ' s the law . 
i should like to see a boat ' s crew backing water up to a whale face 
foremost . ha , ha ! the whale would give them UNK for UNK , mind 
that ! " 
here then , from three UNK UNK , i had a deliberate statement 
of the entire case . considering , therefore , that squalls and UNK 
in the water and consequent UNK on the deep , were matters 
of common occurrence in this kind of life ; considering that at the 
superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale i must UNK my 
life into the hands of him who steered the boat - oftentimes a fellow who 
at that very moment is in his UNK upon the point of UNK 
the craft with his own frantic UNK ; considering that the 
particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be imputed 
to starbuck ' s driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall , 
and considering that starbuck , notwithstanding , was famous for his 
great heedfulness in the fishery ; considering that i belonged to this 
uncommonly prudent starbuck ' s boat ; and finally considering in what a 
devil ' s chase i was UNK , touching the white whale : taking all 
things together , i say , i thought i might as well go below and make a 
rough UNK of my will . " queequeg , " said i , " come along , you shall be my 
lawyer , UNK , and UNK . " 
it may seem strange that of all men sailors should be UNK at their 
last UNK and UNK , but there are no people in the world more 
fond of that UNK . this was the fourth time in my nautical life 
that i had done the same thing . after the ceremony was concluded upon 
the present occasion , i felt all the easier ; a stone was rolled away 
from my heart . besides , all the days i should now live would be as good 
as the days that lazarus lived after his resurrection ; a supplementary 
clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might be . i survived 
myself ; my death and burial were locked up in my chest . i looked 
round me tranquilly and UNK , like a quiet ghost with a clean 
conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug family UNK . 
now then , thought i , unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of my frock , 
here goes for a cool , collected dive at death and destruction , and the 
devil fetch the UNK . 
chapter UNK . ahab ' s boat and crew . fedallah . 
" who would have thought it , flask ! " cried stubb ; " if i had but one leg 
you would not catch me in a boat , unless maybe to stop the plug - hole 
with my timber UNK . oh ! he ' s a wonderful old man ! " 
" i don ' t think it so strange , after all , on that account , " said flask . 
" if his leg were off at the hip , now , it would be a different thing . 
that would UNK him ; but he has one knee , and good part of the other 
left , you know . " 
" i don ' t know that , my little man ; i never yet saw him UNK . " 
among whale - wise people it has often been argued whether , considering 
the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage , it is 
right for a whaling captain to UNK that life in the active perils 
of the chase . so UNK ' s soldiers often argued with UNK in their 
eyes , whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the 
thickest of the fight . 
but with ahab the question assumed a modified aspect . considering 
that with two legs man is but a UNK wight in all times of danger ; 
considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and 
extraordinary difficulties ; that every individual moment , indeed , then 
comprises a peril ; under these circumstances is it wise for any 
UNK man to enter a whale - boat in the hunt ? as a general thing , the 
joint - owners of the pequod must have plainly thought not . 
ahab well knew that UNK his friends at home would think little of 
his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes of 
the chase , for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving 
his orders in person , yet for captain ahab to have a boat actually 
UNK to him as a regular headsman in the hunt - above all for 
captain ahab to be supplied with five extra men , as that same boat ' s 
crew , he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads 
of the owners of the pequod . therefore he had not UNK a boat ' s 
crew from them , nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head . 
nevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all 
that matter . until cabaco ' s published discovery , the sailors had little 
UNK it , though to be sure when , after being a little while out 
of port , all hands had concluded the customary business of UNK the 
whaleboats for service ; when some time after this ahab was now and then 
found UNK himself in the matter of making UNK - pins with his 
own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats , and even 
UNK cutting the small wooden UNK , which when the line is 
running out are UNK over the UNK in the bow : when all this was 
observed in him , and particularly his UNK in having an extra 
coat of UNK in the bottom of the boat , as if to make it better 
withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb ; and also the anxiety 
he evinced in exactly UNK the thigh board , or clumsy cleat , as it is 
sometimes called , the horizontal piece in the boat ' s bow for bracing the 
knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale ; when it was observed 
how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the 
semi - circular depression in the cleat , and with the carpenter ' s UNK 
UNK out a little here and straightened it a little there ; all these 
things , i say , had awakened much interest and curiosity at the time . but 
almost everybody supposed that this particular UNK heedfulness 
in ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of moby dick ; 
for he had already revealed his intention to hunt that mortal monster 
in person . but such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest 
suspicion as to any boat ' s crew being assigned to that boat . 
now , with the subordinate phantoms , what wonder remained soon waned 
away ; for in a whaler wonders soon wane . besides , now and then such 
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown 
nooks and ash - holes of the earth to man these floating UNK of 
whalers ; and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway 
creatures found tossing about the open sea on planks , bits of wreck , 
oars , whaleboats , canoes , blown - off japanese junks , and what not ; that 
UNK himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin 
to chat with the captain , and it would not UNK any UNK 
excitement in the forecastle . 
but be all this as it may , certain it is that while the subordinate 
phantoms soon found their place among the crew , though still as it were 
somehow distinct from them , yet that hair - turbaned fedallah remained 
a muffled mystery to the last . whence he came in a UNK world like 
this , by what sort of unaccountable UNK he soon evinced himself to be 
linked with ahab ' s peculiar fortunes ; nay , so far as to have some sort 
of a half - hinted influence ; heaven knows , but it might have been even 
authority over him ; all this none knew . but one cannot sustain 
an indifferent air concerning fedallah . he was such a creature as 
civilized , domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their 
dreams , and that but dimly ; but the like of whom now and then UNK 
among the unchanging asiatic UNK , especially the oriental isles 
to the east of the continent - those UNK , immemorial , unalterable 
countries , which even in these modern days still preserve much of the 
ghostly UNK of earth ' s primal generations , when the memory of 
the first man was a distinct UNK , and all men his UNK , 
UNK whence he came , eyed each other as real phantoms , and asked of 
the sun and the moon why they were created and to what end ; when though , 
according to UNK , the angels indeed consorted with the daughters of 
men , the devils also , add the UNK UNK , indulged in mundane 
UNK . 
chapter UNK . the spirit - spout . 
days , weeks passed , and under easy sail , the ivory pequod had slowly 
swept across four several cruising - grounds ; that off the azores ; off the 
cape de UNK ; on the plate ( so called ) , being off the mouth of the 
UNK de la plata ; and the UNK ground , an UNK , watery UNK , 
UNK from st . UNK . 
it was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and 
moonlight night , when all the waves rolled by like UNK of silver ; 
and , by their soft , UNK seethings , made what seemed a silvery 
silence , not a UNK ; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen 
far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow . lit up by the moon , it 
looked celestial ; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from 
the sea . fedallah first descried this jet . for of these moonlight 
nights , it was his wont to mount to the main - mast head , and stand a 
look - out there , with the same precision as if it had been day . and yet , 
though herds of whales were seen by night , not one whaleman in a hundred 
would venture a lowering for them . you may think with what emotions , 
then , the seamen beheld this old oriental perched aloft at such unusual 
hours ; his turban and the moon , companions in one sky . but when , after 
spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights 
without UNK a single sound ; when , after all this silence , his 
unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery , moon - lit jet , every 
reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had 
lighted in the rigging , and hailed the mortal crew . " there she blows ! " 
had the trump of judgment blown , they could not have UNK more ; yet 
still they felt no terror ; rather pleasure . for though it was a most 
unwonted hour , yet so impressive was the cry , and so deliriously 
UNK , that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a 
lowering . 
walking the deck with quick , side - lunging strides , ahab commanded the 
t ' gallant sails and UNK to be set , and every UNK spread . the 
best man in the ship must take the helm . then , with every mast - head 
manned , the piled - up craft rolled down before the wind . the strange , 
UNK , lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows 
of so many sails , made the buoyant , hovering deck to feel like air 
beneath the feet ; while still she rushed along , as if two UNK 
influences were struggling in her - one to mount direct to heaven , the 
other to drive UNK to some horizontal UNK . and had you watched 
ahab ' s face that night , you would have thought that in him also two 
different things were warring . while his one live leg made lively UNK 
along the deck , every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin - tap . 
on life and death this old man walked . but though the ship so swiftly 
UNK , and though from every eye , like UNK , the eager glances shot , 
yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night . every sailor swore he 
saw it once , but not a second time . 
this midnight - spout had almost grown a forgotten thing , when , some days 
after , lo ! at the same silent hour , it was again announced : again it 
was descried by all ; but upon making sail to overtake it , once more it 
disappeared as if it had never been . and so it served us night after 
night , till no one heeded it but to wonder at it . UNK 
jetted into the clear moonlight , or UNK , as the case might be ; 
disappearing again for one whole day , or two days , or three ; and somehow 
seeming at every distinct UNK to be advancing still further and 
further in our van , this solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on . 
nor with the immemorial superstition of their race , and in accordance 
with the UNK , as it seemed , which in many things invested 
the pequod , were there wanting some of the seamen who swore that 
whenever and wherever descried ; at however remote times , or in however 
far apart latitudes and longitudes , that UNK spout was cast 
by one self - same whale ; and that whale , moby dick . for a time , there 
reigned , too , a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition , 
as if it were UNK UNK us on and on , in order that the 
monster might turn round upon us , and UNK us at last in the remotest 
and most savage seas . 
these temporary apprehensions , so vague but so awful , derived a wondrous 
potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather , in which , beneath 
all its blue UNK , some thought there lurked a devilish charm , as 
for days and days we UNK along , through seas so wearily , UNK 
mild , that all space , in repugnance to our vengeful errand , seemed 
UNK itself of life before our UNK - like prow . 
but , at last , when turning to the eastward , the cape winds began howling 
around us , and we rose and fell upon the long , troubled seas that are 
there ; when the ivory - tusked pequod sharply bowed to the blast , and 
UNK the dark waves in her madness , till , like showers of silver chips , 
the foam - UNK flew over her bulwarks ; then all this desolate UNK 
of life went away , but gave place to sights more dismal than before . 
close to our bows , strange forms in the water darted hither and thither 
before us ; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea - UNK . and 
every morning , perched on our stays , rows of these birds were seen ; and 
spite of our UNK , for a long time UNK clung to the hemp , 
as though they deemed our ship some UNK , UNK craft ; a thing 
appointed to desolation , and therefore fit UNK - place for their 
UNK UNK . and heaved and heaved , still unrestingly heaved the 
black sea , as if its vast tides were a conscience ; and the great mundane 
soul were in anguish and UNK for the long sin and suffering it had 
bred . 
cape of good hope , do they call ye ? rather cape UNK , as called 
of UNK ; for long allured by the perfidious UNK that before had 
attended us , we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea , 
where guilty beings UNK into those fowls and these fish , seemed 
condemned to swim on UNK without any haven in store , or beat 
that black air without any horizon . but calm , snow - white , and UNK ; 
still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky ; still UNK us 
on from before , the solitary jet would at times be descried . 
during all this blackness of the elements , ahab , though assuming for the 
time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck , 
manifested the UNK UNK ; and more seldom than ever addressed 
his mates . in tempestuous times like these , after everything above and 
aloft has been secured , nothing more can be done but UNK to UNK 
the issue of the gale . then captain and crew become practical UNK . 
so , with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole , and with one 
hand firmly grasping a shroud , ahab for hours and hours would stand 
gazing dead to windward , while an occasional squall of sleet or snow 
would all but UNK his very UNK together . meantime , the crew 
driven from the forward part of the ship by the perilous seas that 
UNK broke over its bows , stood in a line along the bulwarks in 
the waist ; and the better to guard against the leaping waves , each man 
had slipped himself into a sort of UNK secured to the rail , in which 
he swung as in a loosened belt . few or no words were spoken ; and the 
silent ship , as if manned by painted sailors in wax , day after day tore 
on through all the swift madness and gladness of the demoniac waves . 
by night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the 
ocean prevailed ; still in silence the men swung in the UNK ; still 
UNK ahab stood up to the blast . even when wearied nature seemed 
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock . never 
could starbuck forget the old man ' s aspect , when one night going down 
into the cabin to mark how the UNK stood , he saw him with 
closed eyes sitting straight in his floor - screwed chair ; the rain 
and half - melted sleet of the storm from which he had some time before 
emerged , still slowly dripping from the UNK hat and coat . on the 
table beside him lay UNK one of those charts of tides and currents 
which have previously been spoken of . his lantern swung from his tightly 
clenched hand . though the body was erect , the head was thrown back so 
that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell - tale 
that swung from a beam in the ceiling . * 
* the cabin - compass is called the tell - tale , because without going to the 
compass at the helm , the captain , while below , can inform himself of the 
course of the ship . 
terrible old man ! thought starbuck with a shudder , sleeping in this 
gale , still thou steadfastly UNK thy purpose . 
chapter UNK . the albatross . 
south - eastward from the cape , off the distant crozetts , a good cruising 
ground for right whalemen , a sail loomed ahead , the goney ( albatross ) 
by name . as she slowly drew nigh , from my lofty perch at the 
fore - mast - head , i had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro 
in the far ocean fisheries - a whaler at sea , and long absent from home . 
as if the waves had been UNK , this craft was bleached like the 
skeleton of a stranded walrus . all down her sides , this UNK 
appearance was UNK with long channels of UNK rust , while all her 
spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees UNK over 
with UNK - frost . only her lower sails were set . a wild sight it was to 
see her long - bearded look - outs at those three mast - heads . they seemed 
UNK in the UNK of beasts , so torn and UNK the UNK that had 
survived nearly four years of cruising . standing in iron hoops nailed to 
the mast , they swayed and swung over a UNK sea ; and though , when 
the ship slowly glided close under our stern , we six men in the air 
came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the 
mast - heads of one ship to those of the other ; yet , those forlorn - looking 
fishermen , mildly eyeing us as they passed , said not one word to our own 
look - outs , while the quarter - deck hail was being heard from below . 
" ship ahoy ! have ye seen the white whale ? " 
but as the strange captain , leaning over the pallid bulwarks , was in the 
act of putting his trumpet to his mouth , it somehow fell from his hand 
into the sea ; and the wind now rising UNK , he in vain UNK to make 
himself heard without it . meantime his ship was still increasing the 
distance between . while in various silent ways the seamen of the pequod 
were UNK their UNK of this ominous incident at the first 
mere mention of the white whale ' s name to another ship , ahab for a 
moment paused ; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat 
to board the stranger , had not the threatening wind forbade . but taking 
advantage of his windward position , he again seized his trumpet , and 
knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a nantucketer and 
shortly bound home , he loudly hailed - " ahoy there ! this is the pequod , 
bound round the world ! tell them to address all future letters to the 
pacific ocean ! and this time three years , if i am not at home , tell them 
to address them to - " 
at that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed , and instantly , then , 
in accordance with their singular ways , shoals of small harmless fish , 
that for some days before had been UNK swimming by our side , darted 
away with what seemed shuddering fins , and ranged themselves fore and 
aft with the stranger ' s flanks . though in the course of his continual 
voyagings ahab must often before have noticed a similar sight , yet , to 
any monomaniac man , the veriest UNK UNK carry meanings . 
" swim away from me , do ye ? " murmured ahab , gazing over into the water . 
there seemed but little in the words , but the tone conveyed more of deep 
UNK UNK than the insane old man had ever before evinced . but 
turning to the steersman , who thus far had been holding the ship in the 
wind to diminish her headway , he cried out in his old lion voice , - " up 
helm ! keep her off round the world ! " 
round the world ! there is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings ; 
but UNK does all that UNK conduct ? only through 
numberless perils to the very point whence we started , where those that 
we left behind secure , were all the time before us . 
were this world an endless plain , and by sailing eastward we could for 
ever reach new distances , and discover sights more sweet and strange 
than any UNK or islands of king solomon , then there were promise 
in the voyage . but in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of , or in 
tormented chase of that UNK phantom that , some time or other , swims 
before all human hearts ; while chasing such over this round globe , they 
either lead us on in barren UNK or midway leave us whelmed . 
chapter UNK . the gam . 
the UNK reason why ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had 
spoken was this : the wind and sea betokened storms . but even had 
this not been the case , he would not after all , perhaps , have boarded 
her - judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions - if so it 
had been that , by the process of hailing , he had obtained a UNK 
answer to the question he put . for , as it eventually turned out , he 
cared not to consort , even for five minutes , with any stranger captain , 
except he could contribute some of that information he so UNK 
sought . but all this might remain UNK estimated , were not 
something said here of the peculiar usages of whaling - vessels when 
meeting each other in foreign seas , and especially on a common 
cruising - ground . 
if two strangers crossing the pine barrens in new york state , or the 
equally desolate salisbury plain in england ; if casually encountering 
each other in such UNK UNK , these twain , for the life of 
them , cannot well avoid a mutual salutation ; and stopping for a moment 
to interchange the news ; and , perhaps , sitting down for a while 
and resting in concert : then , how much more natural that upon the 
UNK pine barrens and salisbury plains of the sea , two whaling 
vessels descrying each other at the ends of the earth - off lone 
fanning ' s island , or the far away king ' s mills ; how much more natural , 
i say , that under such circumstances these ships should not only 
interchange UNK , but come into still closer , more friendly and 
sociable contact . and especially would this seem to be a matter of 
course , in the case of vessels owned in one seaport , and whose captains , 
officers , and not a few of the men are personally known to each other ; 
and consequently , have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk about . 
for the long absent ship , the outward - UNK , perhaps , has letters on 
board ; at any rate , she will be sure to let her have some papers of a 
UNK a year or two later than the last one on her UNK and thumb - worn 
UNK . and in return for that courtesy , the outward - bound ship would 
receive the latest whaling intelligence from the cruising - ground to 
which she may be destined , a thing of the utmost importance to her . and 
in degree , all this will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing 
each other ' s track on the cruising - ground itself , even though they 
are equally long absent from home . for one of them may have received a 
transfer of letters from some third , and now far remote vessel ; and 
some of those letters may be for the people of the ship she now meets . 
besides , they would UNK the whaling news , and have an UNK 
chat . for not only would they meet with all the sympathies of sailors , 
but likewise with all the peculiar UNK arising from a common 
pursuit and mutually shared UNK and perils . 
nor would difference of country make any very essential difference ; 
that is , so long as both parties speak one language , as is the case 
with americans and english . though , to be sure , from the small number of 
english whalers , such meetings do not very often occur , and when they 
do occur there is too apt to be a sort of UNK between them ; for your 
englishman is rather reserved , and your UNK , he does not fancy that 
sort of thing in anybody but himself . besides , the english whalers 
sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the american 
whalers ; regarding the long , lean nantucketer , with his UNK 
UNK , as a sort of sea - UNK . but where this superiority 
in the english whalemen does really consist , it would be hard to say , 
seeing that the yankees in one day , collectively , kill more whales than 
all the english , collectively , in ten years . but this is a harmless 
little UNK in the english whale - hunters , which the nantucketer does 
not take much to heart ; probably , because he knows that he has a few 
UNK himself . 
so , then , we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea , the 
whalers have most reason to be sociable - and they are so . whereas , some 
merchant ships crossing each other ' s wake in the mid - atlantic , will 
oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition , 
mutually cutting each other on the high seas , like a brace of UNK in 
broadway ; and all the time UNK , perhaps , in UNK UNK upon 
each other ' s rig . as for men - of - war , when they chance to meet at sea , 
they first go through such a string of silly UNK and UNK , such 
a ducking of ensigns , that there does not seem to be much right - down 
hearty good - will and UNK love about it at all . as touching 
slave - ships meeting , why , they are in such a prodigious hurry , they run 
away from each other as soon as possible . and as for pirates , when they 
chance to cross each other ' s cross - bones , the first hail is - " how many 
skulls ? " - the same way that whalers hail - " how many barrels ? " and that 
question once answered , pirates straightway steer apart , for they are 
infernal villains on both sides , and don ' t like to see UNK of each 
other ' s UNK UNK . 
but look at the godly , honest , UNK , hospitable , sociable , 
free - and - easy whaler ! what does the whaler do when she meets another 
whaler in any sort of decent weather ? she has a " gam , " a thing so 
utterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name 
even ; and if by chance they should hear of it , they only grin at it , and 
repeat gamesome stuff about " UNK " and " blubber - boilers , " and such 
like pretty exclamations . why it is that all merchant - seamen , and also 
all pirates and man - of - war ' s men , and slave - ship sailors , cherish such 
a scornful feeling towards whale - ships ; this is a question it would be 
hard to answer . because , in the case of pirates , say , i should like to 
know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about 
it . it sometimes ends in uncommon UNK , indeed ; but only at the 
gallows . and besides , when a man is elevated in that odd fashion , he has 
no proper foundation for his superior altitude . hence , i conclude , 
that in UNK himself to be high lifted above a whaleman , in that 
assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on . 
but what is a gam ? you might wear out your UNK - finger running up and 
down the columns of UNK , and never find the word . dr . johnson 
never attained to that UNK ; noah UNK ' s ark does not hold it . 
nevertheless , this same expressive word has now for many years been in 
constant use among some fifteen thousand true born yankees . certainly , 
it needs a definition , and should be UNK into the lexicon . with 
that view , let me learnedly UNK it . 
gam . UNK - a social meeting of two ( or more ) UNK , generally on a 
cruising - ground ; when , after exchanging UNK , they UNK visits by 
boats ' crews ; the two captains remaining , for the time , on board of one 
ship , and the two chief mates on the other . 
there is another little item about UNK which must not be forgotten 
here . all professions have their own little peculiarities of detail ; so 
has the whale fishery . in a pirate , man - of - war , or slave ship , when 
the captain is UNK anywhere in his boat , he always sits in the stern 
sheets on a comfortable , sometimes UNK seat there , and often 
UNK himself with a pretty little UNK ' s tiller UNK with 
gay cords and UNK . but the whale - boat has no seat astern , no UNK of 
that sort whatever , and no tiller at all . high times indeed , if whaling 
captains were wheeled about the water on UNK like UNK old UNK 
in UNK chairs . and as for a tiller , the whale - boat never admits of 
any such effeminacy ; and therefore as in UNK a complete boat ' s crew 
must leave the ship , and hence as the boat steerer or harpooneer is of 
the number , that subordinate is the steersman upon the occasion , and 
the captain , having no place to sit in , is pulled off to his visit 
all standing like a pine tree . and often you will notice that being 
conscious of the eyes of the whole visible world resting on him from 
the sides of the two ships , this standing captain is all alive to the 
importance of UNK his dignity by UNK his legs . nor is 
this any very easy matter ; for in his rear is the immense projecting 
steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back , the 
after - oar reciprocating by UNK his knees in front . he is thus 
completely wedged before and behind , and can only expand himself 
sideways by UNK down on his stretched legs ; but a sudden , violent 
pitch of the boat will often go far to UNK him , because length of 
foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth . merely make a 
spread angle of two poles , and you cannot stand them up . then , again , 
it would never do in plain sight of the world ' s riveted eyes , it would 
never do , i say , for this UNK captain to be seen UNK 
himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with 
his hands ; indeed , as token of his entire , buoyant self - command , he 
generally carries his hands in his trowsers ' pockets ; but perhaps being 
generally very large , heavy hands , he carries them there for UNK . 
nevertheless there have occurred instances , well UNK ones too , 
where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment or 
two , in a sudden squall say - to seize hold of the nearest oarsman ' s 
hair , and hold on there like grim death . 
chapter UNK . the town - ho ' s story . 
( as told at the golden inn ) 
the cape of good hope , and all the watery region round about there , is 
much like some noted four corners of a great highway , where you meet 
more travellers than in any other part . 
it was not very long after speaking the goney that another 
homeward - bound whaleman , the town - ho , * was encountered . she was manned 
almost wholly by UNK . in the short gam that ensued she gave 
us strong news of moby dick . to some the general interest in the white 
whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the town - ho ' s 
story , which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certain 
wondrous , inverted UNK of one of those so called UNK of god 
which at times are said to overtake some men . this latter circumstance , 
with its own particular accompaniments , forming what may be called the 
secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated , never reached the ears 
of captain ahab or his mates . for that secret part of the story was 
unknown to the captain of the town - ho himself . it was the private 
property of three UNK white seamen of that ship , one of whom , it 
seems , UNK it to tashtego with romish UNK of secrecy , 
but the following night tashtego UNK in his sleep , and revealed 
so much of it in that way , that when he was UNK he could not well 
withhold the rest . nevertheless , so potent an influence did this thing 
have on those seamen in the pequod who came to the full knowledge of 
it , and by such a strange delicacy , to call it so , were they UNK in 
this matter , that they kept the secret among themselves so that it never 
UNK UNK the pequod ' s main - mast . UNK in its proper 
place this darker UNK with the story as UNK narrated on the 
ship , the whole of this strange affair i now proceed to put on UNK 
record . 
* the ancient whale - cry upon first UNK a whale from the mast - head , 
still used by whalemen in hunting the famous UNK UNK . 
for my humor ' s sake , i shall preserve the style in which i once narrated 
it at lima , to a lounging circle of my spanish friends , one saint ' s eve , 
smoking upon the thick - gilt UNK piazza of the golden inn . of those 
fine UNK , the young dons , pedro and sebastian , were on the closer 
terms with me ; and hence the UNK questions they occasionally 
put , and which are duly answered at the time . 
" some two years prior to my first learning the events which i am about 
UNK to you , gentlemen , the town - ho , sperm whaler of nantucket , 
was cruising in your pacific here , not very many days ' sail eastward 
from the UNK of this good golden inn . she was somewhere to the 
northward of the line . one morning upon handling the pumps , according to 
daily usage , it was observed that she made more water in her hold than 
common . they supposed a sword - fish had UNK her , gentlemen . but the 
captain , having some unusual reason for UNK that rare good luck 
UNK him in those latitudes ; and therefore being very UNK to quit 
them , and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous , though , 
indeed , they could not find it after UNK the hold as low down 
as was possible in rather heavy weather , the ship still continued her 
UNK , the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals ; 
but no good luck came ; more days went by , and not only was the leak yet 
UNK , but it UNK increased . so much so , that now taking 
some alarm , the captain , making all sail , stood away for the nearest 
harbor among the islands , there to have his hull hove out and UNK . 
" though no small passage was before her , yet , if the UNK chance 
UNK , he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the way , 
because his pumps were of the best , and being periodically relieved at 
them , those six - and - thirty men of his could easily keep the ship free ; 
never mind if the leak should double on her . in truth , well nigh the 
whole of this passage being attended by very UNK breezes , the 
town - ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port 
without the occurrence of the least fatality , had it not been for the 
UNK overbearing of radney , the mate , a vineyarder , and the bitterly 
UNK vengeance of steelkilt , a lakeman and desperado from buffalo . 
" ' lakeman ! - buffalo ! pray , what is a lakeman , and where is buffalo ? ' 
said don sebastian , rising in his swinging mat of grass . 
" on the eastern shore of our lake erie , don ; but - i UNK your 
courtesy - may be , you shall soon hear further of all that . now , 
gentlemen , in square - sail brigs and three - UNK ships , well - nigh as 
large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old UNK to far 
manilla ; this lakeman , in the land - locked heart of our america , had yet 
been nurtured by all those UNK UNK impressions popularly 
connected with the open ocean . for in their UNK aggregate , 
those grand fresh - water seas of ours , - erie , and UNK , and UNK , and 
superior , and michigan , - possess an ocean - like UNK , with many 
of the ocean ' s noblest UNK ; with many of its UNK varieties of 
UNK and of climes . they contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles , 
even as the UNK waters do ; in large part , are UNK by two great 
contrasting nations , as the atlantic is ; they furnish long maritime 
UNK to our numerous UNK colonies from the east , dotted 
all round their banks ; here and there are UNK upon by UNK , 
and by the goat - like UNK guns of lofty mackinaw ; they have heard the 
fleet UNK of naval UNK ; at intervals , they yield their 
beaches to wild UNK , whose red painted faces flash from out 
their UNK UNK ; for leagues and leagues are UNK by ancient 
and UNK forests , where the gaunt pines stand like UNK lines 
of kings in gothic UNK ; those same woods UNK wild UNK 
beasts of prey , and silken creatures whose UNK UNK give robes 
to tartar emperors ; they mirror the paved capitals of buffalo and 
UNK , as well as UNK villages ; they float alike the 
full - rigged merchant ship , the armed UNK of the state , the steamer , 
and the UNK canoe ; they are swept by UNK and UNK UNK as 
direful as any that lash the salted wave ; they know what UNK are , 
for out of sight of land , however inland , they have drowned full many 
a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew . thus , gentlemen , though 
an UNK , steelkilt was wild - ocean born , and wild - ocean nurtured ; 
as much of an audacious mariner as any . and for radney , though in his 
infancy he may have laid him down on the lone nantucket beach , to nurse 
at his maternal sea ; though in after life he had long followed our 
UNK atlantic and your contemplative pacific ; yet was he quite as 
vengeful and full of social UNK as the UNK seaman , fresh 
from the latitudes of buck - horn handled UNK - knives . yet was this 
nantucketer a man with some good - hearted UNK ; and this lakeman , a 
mariner , who though a sort of devil indeed , might yet by inflexible 
firmness , only tempered by that common UNK of human recognition 
which is the meanest slave ' s right ; thus treated , this steelkilt had 
long been retained harmless and UNK . at all events , he had proved 
so thus far ; but radney was doomed and made mad , and steelkilt - but , 
gentlemen , you shall hear . 
" it was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing 
her prow for her island haven , that the town - ho ' s leak seemed again 
increasing , but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps 
every day . you must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our 
atlantic , for example , some UNK think little of pumping their whole 
way across it ; though of a still , sleepy night , should the officer of 
the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect , the probability 
would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it , on 
account of all hands gently UNK to the bottom . nor in the 
solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward , gentlemen , is it 
altogether unusual for ships to keep UNK at their pump - handles in 
full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length ; that is , if it lie 
along a tolerably UNK coast , or if any other reasonable retreat 
is afforded them . it is only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of 
the way part of those waters , some really landless latitude , that her 
captain begins to feel a little anxious . 
" much this way had it been with the town - ho ; so when her leak was found 
gaining once more , there was in truth some small concern manifested by 
several of her company ; especially by radney the mate . he commanded 
the upper sails to be well hoisted , sheeted home anew , and every way 
expanded to the breeze . now this radney , i suppose , was as little of a 
coward , and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness 
touching his own person as any fearless , UNK creature on land or 
on sea that you can UNK imagine , gentlemen . therefore when 
he betrayed this UNK about the safety of the ship , some of the 
seamen declared that it was only on account of his being a part owner in 
her . so when they were working that evening at the pumps , there was on 
this head no small UNK slily going on among them , as they stood 
with their feet continually UNK by the UNK clear water ; 
clear as any mountain spring , gentlemen - that bubbling from the pumps 
ran across the deck , and poured itself out in steady spouts at the lee 
UNK - holes . 
" now , as you well know , it is not seldom the case in this UNK 
world of ours - watery or otherwise ; that when a person placed in command 
over his fellow - men finds one of them to be very significantly his 
superior in general pride of UNK , straightway against that man he 
UNK an unconquerable UNK and UNK ; and if he have a 
chance he will pull down and UNK that subaltern ' s tower , and 
make a little heap of dust of it . be this conceit of mine as it may , 
gentlemen , at all events steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a 
head like a roman , and a flowing golden beard like the UNK housings 
of your last UNK ' s UNK charger ; and a brain , and a heart , and 
a soul in him , gentlemen , which had made steelkilt charlemagne , had he 
been born son to charlemagne ' s father . but radney , the mate , was ugly 
as a mule ; yet as hardy , as stubborn , as malicious . he did not love 
steelkilt , and steelkilt knew it . 
" UNK the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the 
rest , the lakeman affected not to notice him , but UNK , went on with 
his gay UNK . 
" ' aye , aye , my merry lads , it ' s a lively leak this ; hold a UNK , one 
of ye , and let ' s have a taste . by the lord , it ' s worth UNK ! i tell 
ye what , men , old rad ' s UNK must go for it ! he had best cut away 
his part of the hull and tow it home . the fact is , boys , that sword - fish 
only began the job ; he ' s come back again with a UNK of ship - carpenters , 
saw - fish , and file - fish , and what not ; and the whole posse of ' em 
are now hard at work cutting and UNK at the bottom ; making 
UNK , i suppose . if old rad were here now , i ' d tell him to jump 
overboard and UNK ' em . they ' re playing the devil with his UNK , i 
can tell him . but he ' s a simple old soul , - rad , and a beauty too . boys , 
they say the rest of his property is invested in looking - glasses . i 
wonder if he ' d give a poor devil like me the model of his nose . ' 
" ' damn your eyes ! what ' s that pump stopping for ? ' roared radney , 
UNK not to have heard the sailors ' talk . ' thunder away at it ! ' 
" ' aye , aye , sir , ' said steelkilt , merry as a UNK . ' lively , boys , 
lively , now ! ' and with that the pump clanged like fifty fire - UNK ; 
the men tossed their hats off to it , and ere long that peculiar gasping 
of the lungs was heard which UNK the fullest tension of life ' s 
utmost UNK . 
" quitting the pump at last , with the rest of his band , the lakeman went 
forward all panting , and sat himself down on the windlass ; his face 
fiery red , his eyes bloodshot , and UNK the UNK sweat from his 
brow . now what UNK fiend it was , gentlemen , that possessed radney 
to meddle with such a man in that UNK exasperated state , i know 
not ; but so it happened . intolerably striding along the deck , the mate 
commanded him to get a broom and sweep down the planks , and also a 
shovel , and remove some UNK matters consequent upon UNK a pig 
to run at large . 
" now , gentlemen , sweeping a ship ' s deck at sea is a piece of household 
work which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to every 
evening ; it has been known to be done in the case of ships actually 
foundering at the time . such , gentlemen , is the UNK of 
sea - usages and the UNK love of UNK in seamen ; some of whom 
would not willingly drown without first UNK their faces . but in all 
vessels this broom business is the UNK UNK of the boys , 
if boys there be aboard . besides , it was the stronger men in the town - ho 
that had been divided into gangs , taking turns at the pumps ; and being 
the most UNK seaman of them all , steelkilt had been regularly 
assigned captain of one of the gangs ; consequently he should have 
been UNK from any UNK business not connected with truly nautical 
duties , such being the case with his comrades . i mention all these 
particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood 
between the two men . 
" but there was more than this : the order about the shovel was almost as 
plainly meant to sting and insult steelkilt , as though radney had spat 
in his face . any man who has gone sailor in a whale - ship will 
understand this ; and all this and doubtless much more , the lakeman fully 
comprehended when the mate uttered his command . but as he sat still for 
a moment , and as he steadfastly looked into the mate ' s malignant eye and 
perceived the stacks of powder - casks UNK up in him and the slow - match 
silently burning along towards them ; as he instinctively saw all 
this , that strange forbearance and UNK to stir up the deeper 
UNK in any already UNK being - a repugnance most felt , when 
felt at all , by really valiant men even when UNK - this nameless 
phantom feeling , gentlemen , stole over steelkilt . 
" therefore , in his ordinary tone , only a little broken by the bodily 
exhaustion he was temporarily in , he answered him saying that sweeping 
the deck was not his business , and he would not do it . and then , without 
at all UNK to the shovel , he pointed to three lads as the customary 
UNK ; who , not being UNK at the pumps , had done little or 
nothing all day . to this , radney replied with an oath , in a most 
domineering and outrageous manner UNK UNK his 
command ; meanwhile advancing upon the still seated lakeman , with an 
uplifted cooper ' s club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by . 
" heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps , for 
all his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating steelkilt 
could but ill brook this bearing in the mate ; but somehow still 
UNK the UNK within him , without speaking he remained 
UNK rooted to his seat , till at last the incensed radney shook the 
hammer within a few inches of his face , furiously commanding him to do 
his bidding . 
" steelkilt rose , and slowly retreating round the windlass , steadily 
followed by the mate with his menacing hammer , deliberately repeated his 
intention not to obey . seeing , however , that his forbearance had not 
the slightest effect , by an awful and unspeakable UNK with his 
twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man ; but it was to 
no purpose . and in this way the two went once slowly round the windlass ; 
when , resolved at last no longer to retreat , bethinking him that he had 
now UNK as much as UNK with his humor , the lakeman paused on 
the hatches and thus spoke to the officer : 
" ' mr . radney , i will not obey you . take that hammer away , or look to 
yourself . ' but the predestinated mate coming still closer to him , where 
the lakeman stood fixed , now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of 
his teeth ; meanwhile UNK a string of insufferable UNK . 
retreating not the thousandth part of an inch ; stabbing him in the eye 
with the UNK UNK of his glance , steelkilt , UNK 
his right hand behind him and UNK drawing it back , told his 
UNK that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he ( steelkilt ) would 
murder him . but , gentlemen , the fool had been branded for the UNK 
by the gods . immediately the hammer touched the cheek ; the next instant 
the lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head ; he fell on the hatch 
spouting blood like a whale . 
" ere the cry could go aft steelkilt was shaking one of the UNK 
leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing their 
UNK . they were both canallers . 
" ' canallers ! ' cried don pedro . ' we have seen many whale - ships in our 
UNK , but never heard of your canallers . pardon : who and what are 
they ? ' 
" ' canallers , don , are the UNK belonging to our grand erie canal . you 
must have heard of it . ' 
" ' nay , senor ; hereabouts in this dull , warm , most lazy , and hereditary 
land , we know but little of your vigorous north . ' 
" ' aye ? well then , don , refill my cup . your chicha ' s very fine ; and 
ere proceeding further i will tell ye what our canallers are ; for such 
information may throw side - light upon my story . ' 
" for three hundred and sixty miles , gentlemen , through the entire 
breadth of the state of new york ; through numerous populous cities and 
most UNK villages ; through long , dismal , UNK UNK , and 
UNK , UNK fields , UNK for UNK ; by billiard - room 
and bar - room ; through the holy - of - UNK of great forests ; on roman 
UNK over indian rivers ; through sun and shade ; by happy hearts or 
broken ; through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble UNK 
UNK ; and especially , by rows of snow - white UNK , whose spires 
stand almost like UNK , flows one continual stream of UNK 
corrupt and often lawless life . there ' s your true UNK , gentlemen ; 
there howl your pagans ; where you ever find them , next door to you ; 
under the long - flung shadow , and the snug UNK lee of churches . 
for by some curious fatality , as it is often noted of your metropolitan 
UNK that they ever UNK around the halls of justice , so 
sinners , gentlemen , most abound in holiest UNK . 
" ' is that a friar passing ? ' said don pedro , looking downwards into the 
crowded UNK , with humorous concern . 
" ' well for our northern friend , UNK UNK ' s UNK UNK in 
lima , ' laughed don sebastian . ' proceed , senor . ' 
" ' a moment ! pardon ! ' cried another of the company . ' in the name of all 
us UNK , i but desire to express to you , sir sailor , that we have by 
no means UNK your delicacy in not substituting present lima 
for distant venice in your corrupt comparison . oh ! do not bow and look 
surprised ; you know the proverb all along this coast - " corrupt as 
lima . " it but bears out your saying , too ; churches more UNK than 
billiard - tables , and for ever open - and " corrupt as lima . " so , too , 
venice ; i have been there ; the holy city of the blessed evangelist , st . 
mark ! - st . UNK , UNK it ! your cup ! thanks : here i refill ; now , you 
pour out again . ' 
" freely depicted in his own vocation , gentlemen , the canaller would make 
a fine dramatic hero , so abundantly and UNK wicked is he . like 
mark UNK , for days and days along his green - UNK , flowery UNK , 
he indolently floats , openly UNK with his red - UNK cleopatra , 
UNK his UNK thigh upon the sunny deck . but ashore , all this 
effeminacy is dashed . the UNK guise which the canaller so proudly 
UNK ; his slouched and gaily - UNK hat UNK his grand features . 
a terror to the UNK innocence of the villages through which he 
floats ; his swart UNK and bold UNK are not UNK in cities . 
once a UNK on his own canal , i have received good turns from one of 
these canallers ; i thank him heartily ; would fain be not ungrateful ; 
but it is often one of the prime UNK qualities of your man of 
violence , that at times he has as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger 
in a strait , as to plunder a wealthy one . in sum , gentlemen , what the 
wildness of this canal life is , is UNK evinced by this ; that 
our wild whale - fishery contains so many of its most finished UNK , 
and that scarce any race of mankind , except UNK men , are so much 
distrusted by our whaling captains . nor does it at all diminish the 
UNK of this matter , that to many thousands of our UNK boys and 
young men born along its line , the UNK life of the grand canal 
furnishes the sole transition between quietly UNK in a christian 
corn - field , and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric 
seas . 
" ' i see ! i see ! ' impetuously exclaimed don pedro , UNK his chicha 
upon his silvery UNK . ' no need to travel ! the world ' s one lima . i 
had thought , now , that at your temperate north the generations were cold 
and holy as the hills . - but the story . ' 
" i left off , gentlemen , where the lakeman shook the UNK . hardly 
had he done so , when he was surrounded by the three UNK mates and the 
four harpooneers , who all crowded him to the deck . but sliding down the 
ropes like UNK UNK , the two canallers rushed into the UNK , and 
sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle . others of the 
sailors joined with them in this attempt , and a twisted UNK ensued ; 
while standing out of harm ' s way , the valiant captain UNK up and down 
with a whale - pike , calling upon his officers to manhandle that UNK 
UNK , and smoke him along to the quarter - deck . at intervals , he ran 
close up to the revolving border of the confusion , and prying into 
the heart of it with his pike , sought to prick out the object of his 
UNK . but steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them 
all ; they succeeded in gaining the forecastle deck , where , UNK 
UNK about three or four large casks in a line with the windlass , 
these sea - UNK UNK themselves behind the barricade . 
" ' come out of that , ye pirates ! ' roared the captain , now menacing them 
with a pistol in each hand , just brought to him by the steward . ' come 
out of that , ye cut - UNK ! ' 
" steelkilt leaped on the barricade , and striding up and down there , 
UNK the worst the UNK could do ; but gave the captain to 
understand distinctly , that his ( steelkilt ' s ) death would be the signal 
for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands . UNK in his heart 
lest this might prove but too true , the captain a little UNK , but 
still commanded the UNK instantly to return to their duty . 
" ' will you promise not to touch us , if we do ? ' demanded their 
ringleader . 
" ' turn to ! turn to ! - i make no promise ; - to your duty ! do you want to 
sink the ship , by knocking off at a time like this ? turn to ! ' and he 
once more raised a pistol . 
" ' sink the ship ? ' cried steelkilt . ' aye , let her sink . not a man of us 
turns to , unless you swear not to raise a rope - yarn against us . what say 
ye , men ? ' turning to his comrades . a fierce cheer was their response . 
" the lakeman now UNK the barricade , all the while keeping his eye 
on the captain , and jerking out such sentences as these : - ' it ' s not our 
fault ; we didn ' t want it ; i told him to take his hammer away ; it was 
boy ' s business ; he might have known me before this ; i told him not to 
prick the buffalo ; i believe i have broken a finger here against his 
cursed jaw ; ain ' t those mincing knives down in the forecastle there , 
men ? look to those handspikes , my hearties . captain , by god , look to 
yourself ; say the word ; don ' t be a fool ; forget it all ; we are ready 
to turn to ; treat us decently , and we ' re your men ; but we won ' t be 
UNK . ' 
" ' turn to ! i make no UNK , turn to , i say ! ' 
" ' look ye , now , ' cried the lakeman , flinging out his arm towards him , 
' there are a few of us here ( and i am one of them ) who have shipped 
for the cruise , d ' ye see ; now as you well know , sir , we can claim our 
UNK as soon as the anchor is down ; so we don ' t want a row ; it ' s 
not our interest ; we want to be peaceable ; we are ready to work , but we 
won ' t be UNK . ' 
" ' turn to ! ' roared the captain . 
" steelkilt glanced round him a moment , and then said : - ' i tell you what 
it is now , captain , rather than kill ye , and be hung for such a shabby 
rascal , we won ' t lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us ; but till 
you say the word about not flogging us , we don ' t do a hand ' s turn . ' 
" ' down into the forecastle then , down with ye , i ' ll keep ye there till 
ye ' re sick of it . down ye go . ' 
" ' shall we ? ' cried the ringleader to his men . most of them were against 
it ; but at length , in obedience to steelkilt , they UNK him down 
into their dark den , UNK disappearing , like bears into a cave . 
" as the lakeman ' s bare head was just level with the planks , the captain 
and his posse leaped the barricade , and rapidly drawing over the slide 
of the scuttle , planted their UNK of hands upon it , and loudly called 
for the steward to bring the heavy brass UNK belonging to the 
UNK . 
" then opening the slide a little , the captain whispered something 
down the crack , closed it , and turned the key upon them - ten in 
number - leaving on deck some twenty or more , who thus far had remained 
neutral . 
" all night a wide - awake watch was kept by all the officers , forward and 
aft , especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway ; at which 
last place it was feared the UNK might emerge , after breaking 
through the UNK below . but the hours of darkness passed in peace ; 
the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps , 
whose UNK and clanking at intervals through the dreary night 
dismally UNK through the ship . 
" at sunrise the captain went forward , and knocking on the deck , summoned 
the UNK to work ; but with a UNK they refused . water was then 
lowered down to them , and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed 
after it ; when again turning the key upon them and UNK it , the 
captain returned to the quarter - deck . twice every day for three days 
this was repeated ; but on the fourth morning a confused UNK , and 
then a UNK was heard , as the customary UNK was delivered ; and 
suddenly four men burst up from the forecastle , saying they were ready 
to turn to . the UNK UNK of the air , and a UNK diet , united 
perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution , had constrained them to 
surrender at UNK . emboldened by this , the captain UNK his 
demand to the rest , but steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to 
stop his UNK and betake himself where he belonged . on the fifth 
morning three others of the UNK bolted up into the air from the 
desperate arms below that sought to restrain them . only three were left . 
" ' better turn to , now ? ' said the captain with a heartless UNK . 
" ' shut us up again , will ye ! ' cried steelkilt . 
" ' oh certainly , ' said the captain , and the key clicked . 
" it was at this point , gentlemen , that enraged by the UNK of seven 
of his former UNK , and UNK by the mocking voice that had last 
hailed him , and maddened by his long UNK in a place as black as 
the bowels of despair ; it was then that steelkilt proposed to the two 
canallers , thus far apparently of one mind with him , to burst out of 
their hole at the next UNK of the UNK ; and armed with their 
keen mincing knives ( long , crescentic , heavy implements with a handle 
at each end ) run UNK from the bowsprit to the taffrail ; and if by any 
UNK of UNK possible , seize the ship . for himself , he 
would do this , he said , whether they joined him or not . that was the 
last night he should spend in that den . but the scheme met with no 
UNK on the part of the other two ; they swore they were ready for 
that , or for any other mad thing , for anything in short but a surrender . 
and what was more , they each insisted upon being the first man on deck , 
when the time to make the rush should come . but to this their leader as 
fiercely UNK , UNK that priority for himself ; particularly as 
his two comrades would not yield , the one to the other , in the matter ; 
and both of them could not be first , for the ladder would but admit one 
man at a time . and here , gentlemen , the foul play of these UNK 
must come out . 
" upon hearing the frantic UNK of their leader , each in his own 
separate soul had suddenly lighted , it would seem , upon the same piece 
of UNK , namely : to be foremost in breaking out , in order to be 
the first of the three , though the last of the ten , to surrender ; and 
thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might merit . 
but when steelkilt made known his UNK still to lead them to 
the last , they in some way , by some subtle UNK of UNK , mixed 
their before secret UNK together ; and when their leader 
fell into a doze , verbally opened their souls to each other in three 
sentences ; and bound the sleeper with cords , and UNK him with cords ; 
and shrieked out for the captain at midnight . 
" thinking murder at hand , and smelling in the dark for the blood , he and 
all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle . in a 
few minutes the scuttle was opened , and , bound hand and foot , the still 
struggling ringleader was UNK up into the air by his perfidious 
allies , who at once claimed the honour of securing a man who had been 
fully ripe for murder . but all these were UNK , and dragged along 
the deck like dead cattle ; and , side by side , were seized up into the 
mizzen rigging , like three quarters of meat , and there they hung till 
morning . ' damn ye , ' cried the captain , pacing to and fro before them , 
' the UNK would not touch ye , ye villains ! ' 
" at sunrise he summoned all hands ; and separating those who had UNK 
from those who had taken no part in the mutiny , he told the former that 
he had a good mind to flog them all round - thought , upon the whole , 
he would do so - he ought to - justice demanded it ; but for the present , 
considering their timely surrender , he would let them go with a 
UNK , which he accordingly UNK in the UNK . 
" ' but as for you , ye UNK UNK , ' turning to the three men in the 
rigging - ' for you , i mean to UNK ye up for the try - pots ; ' and , 
seizing a rope , he applied it with all his might to the backs of the 
two traitors , till they yelled no more , but lifelessly hung their heads 
sideways , as the two UNK thieves are drawn . 
" ' my wrist is sprained with ye ! ' he cried , at last ; ' but there is still 
rope enough left for you , my fine UNK , that wouldn ' t give up . take 
that gag from his mouth , and let us hear what he can say for himself . ' 
" for a moment the exhausted UNK made a UNK motion of his 
cramped jaws , and then UNK twisting round his head , said in a sort 
of hiss , ' what i say is this - and mind it well - if you flog me , i murder 
you ! ' 
" ' say ye so ? then see how ye frighten me ' - and the captain drew off with 
the rope to strike . 
" ' best not , ' hissed the lakeman . 
" ' but i must , ' - and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke . 
" steelkilt here hissed out something , inaudible to all but the captain ; 
who , to the amazement of all hands , started back , paced the deck rapidly 
two or three times , and then suddenly throwing down his rope , said , ' i 
won ' t do it - let him go - cut him down : d ' ye hear ? ' 
" but as the UNK mates were hurrying to UNK the order , a pale man , 
with a bandaged head , arrested them - radney the chief mate . ever since 
the blow , he had UNK in his berth ; but that morning , hearing the tumult 
on the deck , he had UNK out , and thus far had watched the whole 
scene . such was the state of his mouth , that he could hardly speak ; 
but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the 
captain dared not attempt , he snatched the rope and advanced to his 
pinioned foe . 
" ' you are a coward ! ' hissed the lakeman . 
" ' so i am , but take that . ' the mate was in the very act of striking , 
when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm . he paused : and then pausing 
no more , made good his word , spite of steelkilt ' s threat , whatever that 
might have been . the three men were then cut down , all hands were turned 
to , and , sullenly worked by the moody seamen , the iron pumps clanged as 
before . 
" just after dark that day , when one watch had retired below , a UNK 
was heard in the forecastle ; and the two trembling traitors running up , 
UNK the cabin door , saying they durst not consort with the crew . 
entreaties , UNK , and kicks could not drive them back , so at their own 
instance they were put down in the ship ' s run for salvation . still , no 
sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest . on the contrary , it seemed , 
that mainly at steelkilt ' s UNK , they had resolved to maintain 
the strictest UNK , obey all orders to the last , and , when the 
ship reached port , desert her in a body . but in order to insure the 
UNK end to the voyage , they all UNK to another thing - namely , 
not to sing out for whales , in case any should be discovered . for , 
spite of her leak , and spite of all her other perils , the town - ho still 
maintained her mast - heads , and her captain was just as willing to 
lower for a fish that moment , as on the day his craft first struck the 
cruising ground ; and radney the mate was quite as ready to change his 
berth for a boat , and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the 
vital jaw of the whale . 
" but though the lakeman had induced the seamen to UNK this sort of 
UNK in their conduct , he kept his own counsel ( at least till all 
was over ) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who 
had UNK him in the UNK of his heart . he was in radney the chief 
mate ' s watch ; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than 
half way to meet his doom , after the scene at the rigging , he insisted , 
against the express counsel of the captain , upon resuming the head 
of his watch at night . upon this , and one or two other circumstances , 
steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge . 
" during the night , radney had an UNK way of sitting on the 
bulwarks of the quarter - deck , and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of 
the boat which was hoisted up there , a little above the ship ' s side . 
in this attitude , it was well known , he sometimes UNK . there was a 
considerable UNK between the boat and the ship , and down between 
this was the sea . steelkilt calculated his time , and found that his next 
trick at the helm would come round at two o ' clock , in the morning of the 
third day from that in which he had been betrayed . at his leisure , 
he employed the interval in UNK something very carefully in his 
watches below . 
" ' what are you making there ? ' said a shipmate . 
" ' what do you think ? what does it look like ? ' 
" ' like a lanyard for your bag ; but it ' s an odd one , seems to me . ' 
" ' yes , rather UNK , ' said the lakeman , holding it at arm ' s length 
before him ; ' but i think it will answer . shipmate , i haven ' t enough 
twine , - have you any ? ' 
" but there was none in the forecastle . 
" ' then i must get some from old rad ; ' and he rose to go aft . 
" ' you don ' t mean to go a begging to him ! ' said a sailor . 
" ' why not ? do you think he won ' t do me a turn , when it ' s to help himself 
in the end , shipmate ? ' and going to the mate , he looked at him 
quietly , and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock . it was given 
him - neither twine nor lanyard were seen again ; but the next night 
an iron ball , closely UNK , partly rolled from the pocket of the 
lakeman ' s monkey jacket , as he was UNK the coat into his hammock for 
a pillow . twenty - four hours after , his trick at the silent helm - nigh 
to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready dug to 
the seaman ' s hand - that fatal hour was then to come ; and in the 
fore - UNK soul of steelkilt , the mate was already stark and 
stretched as a corpse , with his forehead crushed in . 
" but , gentlemen , a fool saved the would - be murderer from the bloody 
deed he had UNK . yet complete revenge he had , and without being the 
UNK . for by a mysterious fatality , heaven itself seemed to step in 
to take out of his hands into its own the UNK thing he would have 
done . 
" it was just between UNK and sunrise of the morning of the second 
day , when they were UNK down the decks , that a UNK teneriffe man , 
drawing water in the main - chains , all at once shouted out , ' there she 
rolls ! there she rolls ! ' UNK , what a whale ! it was moby dick . 
" ' moby dick ! ' cried don sebastian ; ' st . UNK ! sir sailor , but do 
whales have UNK ? whom call you moby dick ? ' 
" ' a very white , and famous , and most deadly immortal monster , don ; - but 
that would be too long a story . ' 
" ' how ? how ? ' cried all the young spaniards , crowding . 
" ' nay , dons , dons - nay , nay ! i cannot UNK that now . let me get more 
into the air , UNK . ' 
" ' the chicha ! the chicha ! ' cried don pedro ; ' our vigorous friend looks 
faint ; - fill up his empty glass ! ' 
" no need , gentlemen ; one moment , and i proceed . - now , gentlemen , 
so suddenly UNK the snowy whale within fifty yards of the 
ship - UNK of the compact among the crew - in the excitement of the 
moment , the teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted 
his voice for the monster , though for some little time past it had been 
plainly beheld from the three sullen mast - heads . all was now a UNK . 
' the white whale - the white whale ! ' was the cry from captain , mates , 
and harpooneers , who , UNK by fearful UNK , were all anxious 
to capture so famous and precious a fish ; while the UNK crew eyed 
UNK , and with curses , the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass , 
that lit up by a horizontal UNK sun , shifted and glistened like 
a living UNK in the blue morning sea . gentlemen , a strange fatality 
UNK the whole career of these events , as if verily UNK out 
before the world itself was charted . the UNK was the bowsman of the 
mate , and when fast to a fish , it was his duty to sit next him , while 
radney stood up with his lance in the prow , and haul in or UNK 
the line , at the word of command . moreover , when the four boats were 
lowered , the mate ' s got the start ; and none howled more fiercely with 
delight than did steelkilt , as he strained at his oar . after a stiff 
pull , their harpooneer got fast , and , spear in hand , radney sprang to 
the bow . he was always a furious man , it seems , in a boat . and now his 
bandaged cry was , to beach him on the whale ' s topmost back . nothing 
loath , his bowsman hauled him up and up , through a blinding foam that 
UNK two UNK together ; till of a sudden the boat struck as 
against a sunken UNK , and UNK over , spilled out the standing mate . 
that instant , as he fell on the whale ' s slippery back , the boat righted , 
and was dashed aside by the swell , while radney was tossed over into the 
sea , on the other flank of the whale . he struck out through the spray , 
and , for an instant , was dimly seen through that veil , wildly seeking to 
remove himself from the eye of moby dick . but the whale rushed round 
in a sudden maelstrom ; seized the swimmer between his jaws ; and rearing 
high up with him , plunged headlong again , and went down . 
" meantime , at the first tap of the boat ' s bottom , the lakeman had 
slackened the line , so as to drop astern from the whirlpool ; calmly 
looking on , he thought his own thoughts . but a sudden , terrific , 
downward jerking of the boat , quickly brought his knife to the line . he 
cut it ; and the whale was free . but , at some distance , moby dick rose 
again , with some tatters of radney ' s red woollen shirt , caught in the 
teeth that had destroyed him . all four boats gave chase again ; but the 
whale eluded them , and finally wholly disappeared . 
" in good time , the town - ho reached her port - a savage , solitary 
place - where no civilized creature UNK . there , headed by the 
lakeman , all but five or six of the UNK deliberately deserted 
among the palms ; eventually , as it turned out , seizing a large double 
war - canoe of the savages , and setting sail for some other harbor . 
" the ship ' s company being UNK to but a handful , the captain called 
upon the islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving 
down the ship to stop the leak . but to such unresting vigilance over 
their dangerous allies was this small band of UNK UNK , both 
by night and by day , and so extreme was the hard work they UNK , 
that upon the vessel being ready again for sea , they were in such a 
weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so 
heavy a vessel . after taking counsel with his officers , he anchored the 
ship as far off shore as possible ; loaded and ran out his two cannon 
from the bows ; stacked his muskets on the UNK ; and warning the 
islanders not to approach the ship at their peril , took one man with 
him , and setting the sail of his best whale - boat , steered straight 
before the wind for tahiti , five hundred miles distant , to procure a 
UNK to his crew . 
" on the fourth day of the sail , a large canoe was descried , which seemed 
to have touched at a low isle of UNK . he steered away from it ; but 
the savage craft bore down on him ; and soon the voice of steelkilt 
hailed him to heave to , or he would run him under water . the captain 
presented a pistol . with one foot on each prow of the yoked war - canoes , 
the lakeman laughed him to scorn ; UNK him that if the pistol so 
much as clicked in the lock , he would bury him in bubbles and foam . 
" ' what do you want of me ? ' cried the captain . 
" ' where are you bound ? and for what are you bound ? ' demanded steelkilt ; 
' no lies . ' 
" ' i am bound to tahiti for more men . ' 
" ' very good . let me board you a moment - i come in peace . ' with that he 
leaped from the canoe , swam to the boat ; and climbing the gunwale , stood 
face to face with the captain . 
" ' cross your arms , sir ; throw back your head . now , repeat after me . 
as soon as steelkilt leaves me , i swear to beach this boat on yonder 
island , and remain there six days . if i do not , may lightning strike 
me ! ' 
" ' a pretty scholar , ' laughed the lakeman . ' UNK , senor ! ' and leaping 
into the sea , he swam back to his comrades . 
" watching the boat till it was fairly UNK , and drawn up to the 
UNK of the cocoa - nut trees , steelkilt made sail again , and in due time 
arrived at tahiti , his own place of UNK . there , luck UNK 
him ; two ships were about to sail for france , and were UNK 
in want of precisely that number of men which the sailor headed . they 
embarked ; and so for ever got the start of their former captain , had he 
been at all minded to work them UNK retribution . 
" some ten days after the french ships sailed , the whale - boat arrived , 
and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized 
UNK , who had been somewhat used to the sea . UNK a small 
native schooner , he returned with them to his vessel ; and finding all 
right there , again resumed his UNK . 
" where steelkilt now is , gentlemen , none know ; but upon the island of 
nantucket , the widow of radney still turns to the sea which UNK 
to give up its dead ; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that 
destroyed him . 
" ' are you through ? ' said don sebastian , quietly . 
" ' i am , don . ' 
" ' then i UNK you , tell me if to the best of your own UNK , 
this your story is in substance really true ? it is so passing wonderful ! 
did you get it from an unquestionable source ? bear with me if i seem to 
press . ' 
" ' also bear with all of us , sir sailor ; for we all join in don 
sebastian ' s suit , ' cried the company , with exceeding interest . 
" ' is there a copy of the holy evangelists in the golden inn , gentlemen ? ' 
" ' nay , ' said don sebastian ; ' but i know a worthy priest near by , who 
will quickly procure one for me . i go for it ; but are you well UNK ? 
this may grow too serious . ' 
" ' will you be so good as to bring the priest also , don ? ' 
" ' though there are no UNK - UNK - UNK ' s in lima now , ' said one of the company 
to another ; ' i fear our sailor friend runs risk of the UNK . 
let us UNK more out of the moonlight . i see no need of this . ' 
" ' UNK me for running after you , don sebastian ; but may i also beg 
that you will be particular in UNK the largest sized evangelists 
you can . ' 
" ' this is the priest , he brings you the evangelists , ' said don sebastian , 
gravely , returning with a tall and solemn figure . 
" ' let me remove my hat . now , venerable priest , further into the light , 
and hold the holy book before me that i may touch it . 
" ' so help me heaven , and on my honour the story i have told ye , 
gentlemen , is in substance and its great items , true . i know it to be 
true ; it happened on this ball ; i trod the ship ; i knew the crew ; i have 
seen and talked with steelkilt since the death of radney . ' " 
chapter UNK . of the monstrous pictures of whales . 
i shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas , 
something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the 
eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored 
alongside the whale - ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there . 
it may be worth while , therefore , previously to UNK to those 
curious UNK UNK of him which even down to the present day 
confidently UNK the faith of the landsman . it is time to set the 
world right in this matter , by UNK such pictures of the whale all 
wrong . 
it may be that the primal source of all those UNK UNK will 
be found among the oldest hindoo , egyptian , and grecian sculptures . for 
ever since those UNK but UNK times when on the marble 
UNK of temples , the UNK of UNK , and on UNK , 
UNK , cups , and coins , the dolphin was drawn in scales of 
chain - armor like UNK ' s , and a UNK head like st . george ' s ; ever 
since then has something of the same sort of UNK prevailed , not 
only in most popular pictures of the whale , but in many scientific 
UNK of him . 
now , by all odds , the most ancient extant portrait UNK purporting to 
be the whale ' s , is to be found in the famous UNK - pagoda of UNK , 
in india . the UNK maintain that in the almost endless sculptures of 
that immemorial pagoda , all the trades and pursuits , every conceivable 
avocation of man , were UNK ages before any of them actually came 
into being . no wonder then , that in some sort our noble profession of 
whaling should have been there UNK forth . the hindoo whale 
referred to , UNK in a separate department of the wall , depicting the 
incarnation of UNK in the form of leviathan , learnedly known as the 
UNK UNK . but though this sculpture is half man and half whale , so 
as only to give the tail of the latter , yet that small UNK of him is 
all wrong . it looks more like the tapering tail of an anaconda , than the 
broad palms of the true whale ' s majestic flukes . 
but go to the old UNK , and look now at a great christian painter ' s 
portrait of this fish ; for he UNK no better than the antediluvian 
hindoo . it is UNK ' s picture of perseus UNK andromeda from the 
sea - monster or whale . where did UNK get the model of such a strange 
creature as that ? nor does UNK , in painting the same scene in his 
own " perseus descending , " make out one whit better . the huge UNK 
of that UNK monster undulates on the surface , scarcely drawing 
one inch of water . it has a sort of UNK on its back , and its 
distended tusked mouth into which the billows are rolling , might be 
taken for the traitors ' gate leading from the thames by water into the 
tower . then , there are the UNK whales of old scotch sibbald , and 
jonah ' s whale , as depicted in the prints of old UNK and the cuts of 
old UNK . what shall be said of these ? as for the book - binder ' s whale 
winding like a vine - stalk round the stock of a descending anchor - as 
stamped and gilded on the backs and title - pages of many books both 
old and new - that is a very UNK but purely fabulous creature , 
UNK , i take it , from the like figures on antique UNK . 
though universally denominated a dolphin , i nevertheless call this 
book - binder ' s fish an attempt at a whale ; because it was so intended 
when the device was first introduced . it was introduced by an old 
italian UNK somewhere about the 15th century , during the UNK 
of learning ; and in those days , and even down to a comparatively 
late period , dolphins were popularly supposed to be a species of the 
leviathan . 
in the UNK and other UNK of some ancient books you will 
at times meet with very curious touches at the whale , where all manner 
of spouts , jets d ' UNK , hot springs and cold , saratoga and baden - baden , 
come bubbling up from his UNK brain . in the title - page of the 
original edition of the " UNK of learning " you will find some 
curious whales . 
but quitting all these UNK attempts , let us glance at those 
pictures of leviathan purporting to be sober , scientific delineations , 
by those who know . in old harris ' s collection of voyages there are some 
plates of whales extracted from a dutch book of voyages , a . d . UNK , 
entitled " a whaling voyage to spitzbergen in the ship UNK in the 
whale , peter UNK of UNK , master . " in one of those plates the 
whales , like great UNK of logs , are represented lying among ice - isles , 
with white bears running over their living backs . in another plate , the 
prodigious UNK is made of representing the whale with perpendicular 
flukes . 
then again , there is an imposing quarto , written by one captain colnett , 
a post captain in the english navy , entitled " a voyage round cape horn 
into the south seas , for the purpose of extending the spermaceti whale 
fisheries . " in this book is an outline purporting to be a " picture of 
a UNK or spermaceti whale , drawn by scale from one killed on the 
coast of mexico , august , UNK , and hoisted on deck . " i doubt not the 
captain had this UNK picture taken for the benefit of his marines . 
to mention but one thing about it , let me say that it has an eye which 
applied , according to the accompanying scale , to a full grown sperm 
whale , would make the eye of that whale a bow - window some five feet 
long . ah , my gallant captain , why did ye not give us jonah looking out 
of that eye ! 
nor are the most conscientious UNK of natural history for 
the benefit of the young and tender , free from the same UNK of 
mistake . look at that popular work " UNK ' s animated nature . " in the 
UNK london edition of 1807 , there are plates of an alleged " whale " 
and a " narwhale . " i do not wish to seem inelegant , but this UNK 
whale looks much like an UNK sow ; and , as for the narwhale , one 
glimpse at it is enough to UNK one , that in this nineteenth century 
such a UNK could be palmed for genuine upon any intelligent 
public of schoolboys . 
then , again , in UNK , bernard UNK , count de lacepede , a great 
naturalist , published a scientific UNK whale book , wherein are 
several pictures of the different species of the leviathan . all these 
are not only UNK , but the picture of the mysticetus or greenland 
whale ( that is to say , the right whale ) , even scoresby , a long 
experienced man as touching that species , declares not to have its 
counterpart in nature . 
but the placing of the cap - UNK to all this UNK business was 
reserved for the scientific frederick cuvier , brother to the famous 
baron . in 1836 , he published a natural history of whales , in which he 
gives what he calls a picture of the sperm whale . before showing that 
picture to any nantucketer , you had best UNK for your summary 
retreat from nantucket . in a word , frederick cuvier ' s sperm whale is not 
a sperm whale , but a UNK . of course , he never had the benefit of 
a whaling voyage ( such men seldom have ) , but whence he derived that 
picture , who can tell ? perhaps he got it as his scientific UNK 
in the same field , UNK , got one of his authentic UNK ; that 
is , from a chinese drawing . and what sort of lively lads with the pencil 
those chinese are , many queer cups and UNK inform us . 
as for the sign - UNK ' whales seen in the streets hanging over the 
UNK of oil - UNK , what shall be said of them ? they are generally 
UNK iii . whales , with dromedary UNK , and very savage ; UNK 
on three or four sailor UNK , that is whaleboats full of mariners : 
their UNK floundering in seas of blood and blue paint . 
but these manifold UNK in depicting the whale are not so very 
surprising after all . consider ! most of the scientific drawings have 
been taken from the stranded fish ; and these are about as correct as a 
drawing of a wrecked ship , with broken back , would correctly UNK 
the noble animal itself in all its UNK pride of hull and spars . 
though elephants have stood for their full - lengths , the living leviathan 
has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait . the living whale , 
in his full majesty and significance , is only to be seen at sea in 
unfathomable waters ; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight , 
like a launched line - of - battle ship ; and out of that element it is a 
thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily into the 
air , so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations . and , not 
to speak of the highly UNK difference of contour between a young 
sucking whale and a full - grown UNK leviathan ; yet , even in the 
case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship ' s deck , such 
is then the outlandish , eel - like , UNK , varying shape of him , that 
his precise expression the devil himself could not catch . 
but it may be fancied , that from the naked skeleton of the stranded 
whale , UNK hints may be derived touching his true form . not at all . 
for it is one of the more curious things about this leviathan , that 
his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape . though jeremy 
UNK ' s skeleton , which hangs for UNK in the UNK of one of 
his executors , correctly conveys the idea of a burly - UNK UNK 
old gentleman , with all jeremy ' s other leading personal characteristics ; 
yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from any leviathan ' s 
UNK bones . in fact , as the great hunter says , the mere skeleton 
of the whale bears the same UNK to the fully invested and padded 
animal as the UNK does to the UNK that so UNK envelopes 
it . this peculiarity is UNK evinced in the head , as in some 
part of this book will be incidentally shown . it is also very curiously 
displayed in the side fin , the bones of which almost exactly answer to 
the bones of the human hand , UNK only the thumb . this fin has four 
regular bone - fingers , the UNK , middle , ring , and little finger . but 
all these are UNK lodged in their fleshy covering , as the human 
fingers in an artificial covering . " however recklessly the whale may 
sometimes serve us , " said humorous stubb one day , " he can never be truly 
said to handle us without UNK . " 
for all these reasons , then , any way you may look at it , you must needs 
conclude that the great leviathan is that one creature in the world 
which must remain UNK to the last . true , one portrait may hit 
the mark much nearer than another , but none can hit it with any very 
considerable degree of UNK . so there is no earthly way of finding 
out precisely what the whale really looks like . and the only mode in 
which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour , is 
by going a whaling yourself ; but by so doing , you run no small risk of 
being eternally stove and sunk by him . wherefore , it seems to me you had 
best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this leviathan . 
chapter UNK . of the less UNK pictures of whales , and the true 
pictures of whaling scenes . 
in connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales , i am strongly 
UNK here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of 
them which are to be found in certain books , both ancient and modern , 
especially in pliny , UNK , hackluyt , harris , cuvier , etc . but i pass 
that matter by . 
i know of only four published UNK of the great sperm whale ; 
colnett ' s , huggins ' s , frederick cuvier ' s , and beale ' s . in the previous 
chapter colnett and cuvier have been referred to . huggins ' s is far 
better than theirs ; but , by great odds , beale ' s is the best . all beale ' s 
drawings of this whale are good , excepting the middle figure in the 
picture of three whales in various attitudes , UNK his second 
chapter . his UNK , boats UNK sperm whales , though no 
doubt calculated to UNK the UNK scepticism of some parlor men , is 
admirably correct and life - like in its general effect . some of the sperm 
whale drawings in j . ross browne are pretty correct in contour ; but they 
are UNK engraved . that is not his fault though . 
of the right whale , the best outline pictures are in scoresby ; but they 
are drawn on too small a scale to UNK a desirable impression . he has 
but one picture of whaling scenes , and this is a sad deficiency , because 
it is by such pictures only , when at all well done , that you can derive 
anything like a UNK idea of the living whale as seen by his living 
hunters . 
but , taken for all in all , by far the finest , though in some details 
not the most correct , UNK of whales and whaling scenes to 
be anywhere found , are two large french engravings , well executed , 
and taken from paintings by one garnery . respectively , they UNK 
attacks on the sperm and right whale . in the first engraving a noble 
sperm whale is depicted in full majesty of might , just risen beneath 
the boat from the profundities of the ocean , and bearing high in the air 
upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven planks . the prow of 
the boat is partially UNK , and is drawn just balancing upon 
the monster ' s spine ; and standing in that prow , for that one single 
UNK flash of time , you behold an oarsman , half shrouded by the 
incensed boiling spout of the whale , and in the act of leaping , as if 
from a UNK . the action of the whole thing is UNK good and 
true . the half - emptied line - tub floats on the UNK sea ; the wooden 
poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely UNK in it ; the heads of the 
swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions 
of affright ; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down 
upon the scene . serious fault might be found with the anatomical details 
of this whale , but let that pass ; since , for the life of me , i could not 
draw so good a one . 
in the second engraving , the boat is in the act of drawing alongside 
the barnacled flank of a large running right whale , that rolls his black 
weedy bulk in the sea like some UNK rock - slide from the patagonian 
cliffs . his jets are erect , full , and black like soot ; so that from so 
abounding a smoke in the chimney , you would think there must be a brave 
supper UNK in the great bowels below . sea fowls are UNK at the 
small crabs , shell - fish , and other sea UNK and UNK , which the 
right whale sometimes carries on his pestilent back . and all the while 
the thick - UNK leviathan is rushing through the deep , leaving tons of 
tumultuous white curds in his wake , and UNK the slight boat to rock 
in the swells like a skiff caught nigh the paddle - wheels of an ocean 
steamer . thus , the UNK is all raging commotion ; but behind , in 
admirable artistic contrast , is the glassy level of a sea becalmed , the 
drooping UNK sails of the powerless ship , and the inert mass of 
a dead whale , a UNK UNK , with the flag of capture lazily 
hanging from the whale - pole inserted into his spout - hole . 
who garnery the painter is , or was , i know not . but my life for it he 
was either practically UNK with his subject , or else UNK 
UNK by some experienced whaleman . the french are the lads for 
painting action . go and gaze upon all the paintings of europe , and 
where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing commotion 
on canvas , as in that triumphal hall at UNK ; where the UNK 
fights his way , UNK - mell , through the consecutive great UNK of 
france ; where every sword seems a flash of the northern lights , and the 
successive armed kings and emperors dash by , like a charge of crowned 
centaurs ? not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery , are these sea 
battle - pieces of garnery . 
the natural UNK of the french for seizing the picturesqueness of 
things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings 
they have of their whaling scenes . with not one tenth of england ' s 
experience in the fishery , and not the thousandth part of that of the 
americans , they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only 
finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of 
the whale hunt . for the most part , the english and american whale 
UNK seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline 
of things , such as the vacant profile of the whale ; which , so far as 
picturesqueness of effect is concerned , is about tantamount to UNK 
the profile of a pyramid . even scoresby , the justly UNK right 
whaleman , after giving us a stiff full length of the greenland whale , 
and three or four delicate UNK of UNK and porpoises , treats 
us to a series of UNK engravings of boat hooks , chopping knives , 
and UNK ; and with the UNK UNK of a UNK 
UNK to the UNK of a shivering world ninety - six UNK - UNK of 
magnified arctic snow crystals . i mean no UNK to the excellent 
voyager ( i honour him for a veteran ) , but in so important a matter it 
was certainly an UNK not to have procured for every crystal a 
sworn UNK taken before a greenland justice of the peace . 
in UNK to those fine engravings from garnery , there are two other 
french engravings worthy of note , by some one who UNK himself 
" h . UNK . " one of them , though not precisely adapted to our present 
purpose , nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts . it is a quiet 
noon - scene among the isles of the pacific ; a french whaler anchored , 
UNK , in a calm , and lazily taking water on board ; the loosened sails 
of the ship , and the long leaves of the palms in the background , both 
drooping together in the UNK air . the effect is very fine , when 
considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen under 
one of their few aspects of oriental repose . the other engraving is 
quite a different affair : the ship hove - to upon the open sea , and in the 
very heart of the leviathanic life , with a right whale alongside ; the 
vessel ( in the act of cutting - in ) hove over to the monster as if to a 
UNK ; and a boat , hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity , is 
about giving chase to whales in the distance . the harpoons and lances 
lie levelled for use ; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its 
hole ; while from a sudden roll of the sea , the little craft stands 
half - erect out of the water , like a rearing horse . from the ship , the 
smoke of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smoke 
over a village of UNK ; and to windward , a black cloud , rising up 
with earnest of squalls and UNK , seems to UNK the activity of the 
excited seamen . 
chapter UNK . of whales in paint ; in teeth ; in wood ; in sheet - iron ; in 
stone ; in mountains ; in stars . 
on tower - hill , as you go down to the london docks , you may have seen a 
crippled UNK ( or UNK , as the sailors say ) holding a painted board 
before him , representing the tragic scene in which he lost his leg . 
there are three whales and three boats ; and one of the boats ( presumed 
to contain the missing leg in all its original UNK ) is being 
UNK by the jaws of the foremost whale . any time these ten years , 
they tell me , has that man held up that picture , and exhibited that 
stump to an incredulous world . but the time of his UNK has 
now come . his three whales are as good whales as were ever published in 
wapping , at any rate ; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you 
will find in the western UNK . but , though for ever mounted on 
that stump , never a stump - speech does the poor whaleman make ; but , with 
UNK eyes , stands ruefully UNK his own UNK . 
throughout the pacific , and also in nantucket , and new bedford , and 
sag harbor , you will come across lively sketches of whales and 
whaling - scenes , UNK by the fishermen themselves on sperm whale - teeth , 
or ladies ' busks wrought out of the right whale - bone , and other 
like skrimshander articles , as the whalemen call the numerous little 
ingenious contrivances they UNK carve out of the rough material , 
in their hours of ocean leisure . some of them have little boxes 
of UNK - looking implements , specially intended for the 
UNK business . but , in general , they toil with their 
jack - knives alone ; and , with that almost omnipotent UNK of the sailor , 
they will turn you out anything you please , in the way of a mariner ' s 
fancy . 
long UNK from christendom and UNK inevitably UNK a man 
to that condition in which god placed him , i . e . what is called UNK . 
your true whale - hunter is as much a savage as an iroquois . i myself am a 
savage , owning no UNK but to the king of the cannibals ; and ready 
at any moment to UNK against him . 
now , one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic 
hours , is his wonderful patience of UNK . an ancient UNK 
war - club or spear - paddle , in its full multiplicity and UNK of 
carving , is as great a trophy of human UNK as a latin lexicon . 
for , with but a bit of broken sea - shell or a shark ' s tooth , that 
miraculous UNK of wooden net - work has been achieved ; and it has 
UNK steady years of steady application . 
as with the UNK savage , so with the white sailor - savage . with the 
same marvellous patience , and with the same single shark ' s tooth , of 
his one poor jack - knife , he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture , not 
quite as workmanlike , but as close packed in its UNK of design , 
as the greek savage , UNK ' s UNK ; and full of barbaric spirit 
and UNK , as the prints of that fine old dutch savage , UNK 
UNK . 
wooden whales , or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs of 
the noble south sea war - wood , are frequently met with in the UNK 
of american whalers . some of them are done with much accuracy . 
at some old gable - UNK country houses you will see brass whales hung 
by the tail for UNK to the road - side door . when the UNK is 
sleepy , the anvil - headed whale would be best . but these knocking 
whales are seldom remarkable as faithful essays . on the spires of some 
old - fashioned churches you will see sheet - iron whales placed there for 
weather - cocks ; but they are so elevated , and besides that are to all 
UNK and purposes so UNK with " hands off ! " you cannot examine 
them closely enough to UNK upon their merit . 
in bony , UNK regions of the earth , where at the base of high broken 
cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in UNK UNK upon the 
plain , you will often discover UNK as of the UNK forms of the 
leviathan partly merged in grass , which of a UNK day breaks against 
them in a surf of green UNK . 
then , again , in mountainous countries where the traveller is continually 
girdled by UNK UNK ; here and there from some lucky 
point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the UNK of 
whales defined along the undulating UNK . but you must be a thorough 
whaleman , to see these sights ; and not only that , but if you wish 
to return to such a sight again , you must be sure and take the exact 
UNK latitude and longitude of your first stand - point , else 
so chance - like are such observations of the hills , that your precise , 
previous stand - point would require a laborious re - discovery ; like the 
UNK islands , which still remain incognita , though once high - UNK 
UNK trod them and old UNK UNK them . 
nor when UNK lifted by your subject , can you fail to trace out 
great whales in the starry heavens , and boats in pursuit of them ; as 
when long filled with thoughts of war the eastern nations saw armies 
locked in battle among the clouds . thus at the north have i chased 
leviathan round and round the pole with the UNK of the bright 
points that first defined him to me . and beneath the UNK antarctic 
skies i have boarded the UNK - UNK , and joined the chase against the 
starry cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of UNK and the flying 
fish . 
with a frigate ' s anchors for my UNK - bitts and UNK of harpoons for 
spurs , would i could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies , to 
see whether the UNK heavens with all their countless tents really lie 
UNK beyond my mortal sight ! 
chapter UNK . brit . 
steering north - eastward from the crozetts , we fell in with vast meadows 
of brit , the minute , yellow substance , upon which the right whale 
largely feeds . for leagues and leagues it undulated round us , so that we 
seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden wheat . 
on the second day , numbers of right whales were seen , who , secure from 
the attack of a sperm whaler like the pequod , with open jaws UNK 
swam through the brit , which , adhering to the UNK fibres of that 
wondrous venetian blind in their mouths , was in that manner separated 
from the water that escaped at the lip . 
as morning mowers , who side by side slowly and UNK advance 
their scythes through the long wet grass of UNK meads ; even so these 
monsters swam , making a strange , grassy , cutting sound ; and leaving 
behind them endless UNK of blue upon the yellow sea . * 
* that part of the sea known among whalemen as the " UNK banks " does 
not bear that name as the banks of newfoundland do , because of there 
being UNK and soundings there , but because of this remarkable 
meadow - like appearance , caused by the vast UNK of brit continually 
floating in those latitudes , where the right whale is often chased . 
but it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all 
reminded one of mowers . seen from the mast - heads , especially when they 
paused and were stationary for a while , their vast black forms looked 
more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else . and as in the 
great hunting countries of india , the stranger at a distance will 
sometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them 
to be such , taking them for bare , UNK UNK of the soil ; even 
so , often , with him , who for the first time UNK this species of the 
leviathans of the sea . and even when recognised at last , their immense 
magnitude UNK it very hard really to believe that such bulky masses 
of UNK can possibly be instinct , in all parts , with the same sort 
of life that lives in a dog or a horse . 
indeed , in other respects , you can hardly regard any creatures of the 
deep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore . for though 
some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are 
of their kind in the sea ; and though taking a broad general view of 
the thing , this may very well be ; yet coming to UNK , where , for 
example , does the ocean furnish any fish that in UNK answers to 
the sagacious kindness of the dog ? the accursed shark alone can in any 
generic respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him . 
but though , to landsmen in general , the native inhabitants of the 
seas have ever been regarded with emotions UNK UNK and 
UNK ; though we know the sea to be an everlasting UNK incognita , 
so that UNK sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his 
one UNK western one ; though , by vast odds , the most terrific 
of all mortal disasters have UNK and indiscriminately befallen 
tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters ; 
though but a moment ' s consideration will teach , that however baby man 
may brag of his science and skill , and however much , in a UNK 
future , that science and skill may augment ; yet for ever and for ever , 
to the crack of doom , the sea will insult and murder him , and UNK 
the UNK , stiffest frigate he can make ; nevertheless , by the 
continual UNK of these very impressions , man has lost that sense 
of the full UNK of the sea which UNK belongs to it . 
the first boat we read of , floated on an ocean , that with portuguese 
vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow . 
that same ocean rolls now ; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships 
of last year . yea , foolish mortals , noah ' s flood is not yet subsided ; 
two thirds of the fair world it yet covers . 
wherein UNK the sea and the land , that a miracle upon one is not a 
miracle upon the other ? preternatural terrors rested upon the UNK , 
when under the feet of UNK and his company the live ground opened 
and swallowed them up for ever ; yet not a modern sun ever sets , but in 
precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews . 
but not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it , but it 
is also a fiend to its own off - spring ; worse than the persian host who 
murdered his own guests ; sparing not the creatures which itself hath 
UNK . like a savage UNK that tossing in the UNK UNK her 
own UNK , so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the rocks , 
and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of ships . no 
mercy , no power but its own controls it . panting and UNK like a mad 
battle steed that has lost its rider , the UNK ocean UNK the 
globe . 
consider the UNK of the sea ; how its most dreaded creatures UNK 
under water , UNK for the most part , and UNK hidden 
beneath the UNK tints of azure . consider also the devilish 
UNK and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes , as the 
dainty UNK shape of many species of sharks . consider , once more , 
the universal UNK of the sea ; all whose creatures prey upon each 
other , carrying on eternal war since the world began . 
consider all this ; and then turn to this green , gentle , and most UNK 
earth ; consider them both , the sea and the land ; and do you not find a 
strange analogy to something in yourself ? for as this appalling ocean 
surrounds the verdant land , so in the soul of man there lies one insular 
tahiti , full of peace and joy , but UNK by all the horrors of the 
half known life . god keep thee ! push not off from that isle , thou canst 
never return ! 
chapter UNK . squid . 
slowly UNK through the meadows of brit , the pequod still held on her 
way north - eastward towards the island of java ; a gentle air UNK 
her keel , so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall tapering 
masts mildly waved to that UNK breeze , as three mild palms on a 
plain . and still , at wide intervals in the silvery night , the lonely , 
alluring jet would be seen . 
but one transparent blue morning , when a stillness almost preternatural 
spread over the sea , however unattended with any UNK calm ; when 
the long UNK sun - UNK on the waters seemed a golden finger laid 
across them , UNK some secrecy ; when the UNK waves whispered 
together as they softly ran on ; in this profound hush of the visible 
sphere a strange UNK was seen by daggoo from the main - mast - head . 
in the distance , a great white mass lazily rose , and rising higher and 
higher , and UNK itself from the azure , at last gleamed before 
our prow like a snow - slide , new slid from the hills . thus glistening 
for a moment , as slowly it subsided , and sank . then once more arose , 
and silently gleamed . it seemed not a whale ; and yet is this moby dick ? 
thought daggoo . again the phantom went down , but on re - UNK once 
more , with a UNK - like cry that startled every man from his nod , the 
negro yelled out - " there ! there again ! there she UNK ! right ahead ! 
the white whale , the white whale ! " 
upon this , the seamen rushed to the yard - arms , as in swarming - time the 
bees rush to the boughs . bare - headed in the sultry sun , ahab stood on 
the bowsprit , and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave 
his orders to the helmsman , cast his eager glance in the direction 
indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of daggoo . 
whether the flitting UNK of the one still and solitary jet had 
gradually worked upon ahab , so that he was now prepared to UNK the 
ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular 
whale he pursued ; however this was , or whether his eagerness betrayed 
him ; UNK way it might have been , no sooner did he distinctly 
perceive the white mass , than with a quick intensity he instantly gave 
orders for lowering . 
the four boats were soon on the water ; ahab ' s in advance , and all 
swiftly pulling towards their prey . soon it went down , and while , with 
oars suspended , we were awaiting its UNK , lo ! in the same 
spot where it sank , once more it slowly rose . almost UNK for 
the moment all thoughts of moby dick , we now gazed at the most wondrous 
phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind . 
a vast UNK mass , furlongs in length and breadth , of a glancing 
cream - colour , lay floating on the water , UNK long arms radiating 
from its centre , and curling and twisting like a nest of UNK , as 
if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach . no UNK 
face or front did it have ; no conceivable token of either sensation or 
instinct ; but undulated there on the billows , an unearthly , UNK , 
chance - like apparition of life . 
as with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again , starbuck still 
gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk , with a wild voice 
exclaimed - " almost rather had i seen moby dick and fought him , than to 
have seen thee , thou white ghost ! " 
" what was it , sir ? " said flask . 
" the great live squid , which , they say , few whale - ships ever beheld , and 
returned to their ports to tell of it . " 
but ahab said nothing ; turning his boat , he sailed back to the vessel ; 
the rest as silently following . 
whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected with 
the sight of this object , certain it is , that a glimpse of it being 
so very unusual , that circumstance has gone far to invest it with 
UNK . so rarely is it beheld , that though one and all of them 
declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean , yet very few 
of them have any but the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and 
form ; notwithstanding , they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale 
his only food . for though other species of whales find their food above 
water , and may be seen by man in the act of feeding , the spermaceti 
whale UNK his whole food in unknown zones below the surface ; and 
only by inference is it that any one can tell of what , precisely , that 
food consists . at times , when closely pursued , he will UNK what 
are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid ; some of them thus 
exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length . they fancy that 
the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily UNK by them to 
the bed of the ocean ; and that the sperm whale , unlike other species , is 
supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it . 
there seems some ground to imagine that the great UNK of bishop 
UNK may UNK resolve itself into squid . the manner in 
which the bishop UNK it , as alternately rising and sinking , with 
some other particulars he UNK , in all this the two correspond . 
but much UNK is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he 
UNK it . 
by some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious 
creature , here spoken of , it is included among the class of cuttle - fish , 
to which , indeed , in certain external respects it would seem to belong , 
but only as the UNK of the tribe . 
chapter 60 . the line . 
with reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described , as well as 
for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented , 
i have here to speak of the magical , sometimes horrible whale - line . 
the line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp , slightly 
UNK with tar , not UNK with it , as in the case of ordinary 
ropes ; for while tar , as ordinarily used , makes the hemp more UNK to 
the rope - maker , and also UNK the rope itself more convenient to the 
sailor for common ship use ; yet , not only would the ordinary quantity 
too much UNK the whale - line for the close coiling to which it must 
be subjected ; but as most seamen are beginning to learn , tar in general 
by no means UNK to the rope ' s UNK or strength , however much it 
may give it UNK and UNK . 
of late years the manilla rope has in the american fishery almost 
entirely UNK hemp as a material for whale - lines ; for , though not 
so UNK as hemp , it is stronger , and far more soft and elastic ; and 
i will add ( since there is an UNK in all things ) , is much more 
handsome and becoming to the boat , than hemp . hemp is a dusky , dark 
fellow , a sort of indian ; but manilla is as a golden - haired UNK 
to behold . 
the whale - line is only two - thirds of an inch in thickness . at first 
sight , you would not think it so strong as it really is . by experiment 
its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and 
twenty pounds ; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal 
to three tons . in length , the common sperm whale - line measures something 
over two hundred fathoms . towards the stern of the boat it is UNK 
coiled away in the tub , not like the worm - pipe of a still though , but so 
as to form one round , cheese - shaped mass of UNK bedded " sheaves , " or 
layers of concentric UNK , without any hollow but the " heart , " 
or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese . as the least 
UNK or kink in the coiling would , in running out , infallibly take 
somebody ' s arm , leg , or entire body off , the utmost UNK is used 
in stowing the line in its tub . some harpooneers will consume almost an 
entire morning in this business , carrying the line high aloft and then 
UNK it downwards through a block towards the tub , so as in the act 
of coiling to free it from all possible wrinkles and UNK . 
in the english boats two tubs are used instead of one ; the same line 
being continuously coiled in both tubs . there is some advantage in this ; 
because these twin - tubs being so small they fit more readily into the 
boat , and do not strain it so much ; whereas , the american tub , nearly 
three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth , makes a rather bulky 
UNK for a craft whose planks are but one half - inch in thickness ; for 
the bottom of the whale - boat is like critical ice , which will bear up 
a considerable distributed weight , but not very much of a concentrated 
one . when the painted canvas cover is clapped on the american line - tub , 
the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a prodigious great 
wedding - cake to present to the whales . 
both ends of the line are exposed ; the lower end terminating in an 
eye - splice or UNK coming up from the bottom against the side of the 
tub , and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything . 
this arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts . first : 
in order to UNK the fastening to it of an additional line from a 
neighboring boat , in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as 
to threaten to carry off the entire line originally attached to the 
harpoon . in these instances , the whale of course is shifted like a UNK 
of ale , as it were , from the one boat to the other ; though the 
first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort . second : this 
arrangement is indispensable for common safety ' s sake ; for were the 
lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat , and were the 
whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single , smoking 
minute as he sometimes does , he would not stop there , for the doomed 
boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the UNK of 
the sea ; and in that case no town - UNK would ever find her again . 
before lowering the boat for the chase , the upper end of the line is 
taken aft from the tub , and passing round the loggerhead there , is again 
carried forward the entire length of the boat , resting crosswise upon 
the loom or handle of every man ' s oar , so that it UNK against his wrist 
in rowing ; and also passing between the men , as they alternately sit at 
the opposite gunwales , to the UNK chocks or grooves in the extreme 
pointed prow of the boat , where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a 
common quill , UNK it from slipping out . from the chocks it hangs 
in a slight UNK over the bows , and is then passed inside the boat 
again ; and some ten or twenty fathoms ( called box - line ) being coiled 
upon the box in the bows , it continues its way to the gunwale still a 
little further aft , and is then attached to the short - warp - the rope 
which is immediately connected with the harpoon ; but previous to that 
connexion , the short - warp goes through sundry UNK too UNK 
to detail . 
thus the whale - line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils , 
twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction . all the 
oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions ; so that to the timid 
eye of the landsman , they seem as indian UNK , with the deadliest 
UNK UNK UNK their limbs . nor can any son of mortal 
woman , for the first time , seat himself amid those hempen intricacies , 
and while straining his utmost at the oar , bethink him that at any 
unknown instant the harpoon may be darted , and all these horrible 
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings ; he cannot be thus 
UNK without a shudder that makes the very UNK in his bones 
to quiver in him like a shaken UNK . yet habit - strange thing ! what 
cannot habit UNK ? - gayer UNK , more merry mirth , better UNK , 
and brighter UNK , you never heard over your mahogany , than you 
will hear over the half - inch white cedar of the whale - boat , when thus 
hung in UNK ' s UNK ; and , like the six UNK of UNK before 
king UNK , the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death , 
with a UNK around every neck , as you may say . 
perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for 
those repeated whaling disasters - some few of which are casually 
UNK - of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the 
line , and lost . for , when the line is darting out , to be seated then in 
the boat , is like being seated in the midst of the manifold UNK 
of a steam - UNK in full play , when every flying beam , and shaft , and 
wheel , is UNK you . it is worse ; for you cannot sit motionless in the 
heart of these perils , because the boat is rocking like a UNK , and 
you are pitched one way and the other , without the slightest warning ; 
and only by a certain self - UNK buoyancy and UNK of 
volition and action , can you escape being made a UNK of , and run 
away with where the all - seeing sun himself could never UNK you out . 
again : as the profound calm which only apparently UNK and 
UNK of the storm , is perhaps more awful than the storm itself ; 
for , indeed , the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm ; and 
contains it in itself , as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal 
powder , and the ball , and the UNK ; so the graceful repose of the 
line , as it silently UNK about the oarsmen before being brought 
into actual play - this is a thing which carries more of true terror than 
any other aspect of this dangerous affair . but why say more ? all men 
live enveloped in whale - lines . all are born with UNK round their 
necks ; but it is only when caught in the swift , sudden turn of death , 
that mortals UNK the silent , subtle , ever - present perils of life . 
and if you be a philosopher , though seated in the whale - boat , you would 
not at heart feel one whit more of terror , than though seated before 
your evening fire with a UNK , and not a harpoon , by your side . 
chapter UNK . stubb UNK a whale . 
if to starbuck the apparition of the squid was a thing of portents , to 
queequeg it was quite a different object . 
" when you see him ' UNK , " said the savage , UNK his harpoon in the bow 
of his hoisted boat , " then you quick see him ' UNK whale . " 
the next day was exceedingly still and sultry , and with nothing special 
to UNK them , the pequod ' s crew could hardly UNK the spell of sleep 
induced by such a vacant sea . for this part of the indian ocean through 
which we then were UNK is not what whalemen call a lively ground ; 
that is , it affords UNK glimpses of porpoises , dolphins , flying - fish , 
and other vivacious UNK of more stirring waters , than those off the 
UNK de la plata , or the in - shore ground off peru . 
it was my turn to stand at the foremast - head ; and with my shoulders 
leaning against the slackened royal shrouds , to and fro i UNK swayed in 
what seemed an enchanted air . no resolution could withstand it ; in that 
dreamy mood losing all consciousness , at last my soul went out of my 
body ; though my body still continued to sway as a UNK will , long 
after the power which first moved it is withdrawn . 
ere UNK altogether came over me , i had noticed that the seamen 
at the main and mizzen - mast - heads were already drowsy . so that at last 
all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars , and for every swing 
that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman . 
the waves , too , UNK their indolent crests ; and across the wide trance 
of the sea , east UNK to west , and the sun over all . 
suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes ; like vices my 
hands grasped the shrouds ; some invisible , gracious UNK preserved me ; 
with a shock i came back to life . and lo ! close under our lee , not forty 
fathoms off , a gigantic sperm whale lay rolling in the water like the 
capsized hull of a frigate , his broad , glossy back , of an UNK hue , 
glistening in the sun ' s rays like a mirror . but lazily undulating in 
the UNK of the sea , and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his vapoury 
jet , the whale looked like a portly UNK smoking his pipe of a warm 
afternoon . but that pipe , poor whale , was thy last . as if struck by some 
UNK ' s wand , the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once 
started into UNK ; and more than a score of voices from all parts 
of the vessel , simultaneously with the three notes from aloft , shouted 
forth the accustomed cry , as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted 
the sparkling brine into the air . 
" clear away the boats ! UNK ! " cried ahab . and obeying his own order , he 
dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes . 
the sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale ; and ere 
the boats were down , UNK turning , he swam away to the leeward , 
but with such a steady UNK , and making so few UNK as he 
swam , that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed , ahab gave 
orders that not an oar should be used , and no man must speak but in 
whispers . so seated like UNK indians on the gunwales of the boats , 
we swiftly but silently paddled along ; the calm not admitting of the 
noiseless sails being set . presently , as we thus glided in chase , the 
monster perpendicularly UNK his tail forty feet into the air , and 
then sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up . 
" there go flukes ! " was the cry , an announcement immediately followed by 
stubb ' s producing his match and UNK his pipe , for now a respite was 
granted . after the full interval of his sounding had elapsed , the whale 
rose again , and being now in advance of the UNK ' s boat , and much 
nearer to it than to any of the others , stubb counted upon the honour 
of the capture . it was obvious , now , that the whale had at length become 
aware of his pursuers . all silence of UNK was therefore no 
longer of use . paddles were dropped , and oars came loudly into play . and 
still puffing at his pipe , stubb UNK on his crew to the assault . 
yes , a mighty change had come over the fish . all alive to his jeopardy , 
he was going " head out " ; that part obliquely projecting from the mad 
UNK which he brewed . * 
* it will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance 
the entire interior of the sperm whale ' s enormous head consists . though 
apparently the most massive , it is by far the most buoyant part about 
him . so that with ease he UNK it in the air , and invariably does 
so when going at his utmost speed . besides , such is the breadth of the 
upper part of the front of his head , and such the tapering cut - water 
formation of the lower part , that by obliquely elevating his head , he 
thereby may be said to UNK himself from a bluff - bowed UNK 
galliot into a UNK new york pilot - boat . 
" start her , start her , my men ! don ' t hurry yourselves ; take plenty of 
time - but start her ; start her like thunder - claps , that ' s all , " cried 
stubb , UNK out the smoke as he spoke . " start her , now ; give ' em 
the long and strong stroke , tashtego . start her , tash , my boy - start 
her , all ; but keep cool , keep cool - UNK is the word - easy , 
easy - only start her like grim death and grinning devils , and raise the 
buried dead perpendicular out of their UNK , boys - that ' s all . start 
her ! " 
" UNK - UNK ! UNK - hee ! " UNK the gay - header in reply , raising some 
old war - UNK to the skies ; as every oarsman in the strained boat 
involuntarily UNK forward with the one tremendous leading stroke 
which the eager indian gave . 
but his wild UNK were answered by others quite as wild . " kee - hee ! 
kee - hee ! " yelled daggoo , straining forwards and backwards on his seat , 
like a pacing tiger in his cage . 
" UNK - la ! UNK - UNK ! " howled queequeg , as if smacking his lips over a 
mouthful of grenadier ' s steak . and thus with oars and UNK the keels 
cut the sea . meanwhile , stubb UNK his place in the van , still 
UNK his men to the onset , all the while puffing the smoke from 
his mouth . like desperadoes they UNK and they strained , till the 
welcome cry was heard - " stand up , tashtego ! - give it to him ! " the 
harpoon was hurled . " stern all ! " the oarsmen backed water ; the same 
moment something went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists . 
it was the magical line . an instant before , stubb had swiftly caught two 
additional turns with it round the loggerhead , whence , by reason of its 
increased rapid UNK , a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and UNK 
with the steady UNK from his pipe . as the line passed round and 
round the loggerhead ; so also , just before reaching that point , it 
UNK passed through and through both of stubb ' s hands , from 
which the hand - UNK , or squares of UNK canvas sometimes worn at 
these times , had accidentally dropped . it was like holding an enemy ' s 
sharp two - edged sword by the blade , and that enemy all the time striving 
to wrest it out of your clutch . 
" wet the line ! wet the line ! " cried stubb to the tub oarsman ( him seated 
by the tub ) who , snatching off his hat , dashed sea - water into it . * more 
turns were taken , so that the line began holding its place . the boat now 
flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins . stubb and tashtego 
here changed places - stem for stern - a UNK business truly in that 
rocking commotion . 
* partly to show the UNK of this act , it may here be 
stated , that , in the old dutch fishery , a UNK was used to dash the 
running line with water ; in many other ships , a wooden UNK , or 
UNK , is set apart for that purpose . your hat , however , is the most 
convenient . 
from the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper part of 
the boat , and from its now being more tight than a UNK , you would 
have thought the craft had two keels - one UNK the water , the other 
the air - as the boat churned on through both opposing elements at once . 
a continual UNK played at the bows ; a ceaseless whirling UNK in 
her wake ; and , at the slightest motion from within , even but of a little 
finger , the vibrating , cracking craft canted over her spasmodic gunwale 
into the sea . thus they rushed ; each man with might and main clinging 
to his seat , to prevent being tossed to the foam ; and the tall form of 
tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double , in order to bring 
down his centre of gravity . whole UNK and pacifics seemed passed 
as they shot on their way , till at length the whale somewhat slackened 
his flight . 
" haul in - haul in ! " cried stubb to the bowsman ! and , facing round 
towards the whale , all hands began pulling the boat up to him , while yet 
the boat was being towed on . soon ranging up by his flank , stubb , firmly 
planting his knee in the clumsy cleat , darted dart after dart into the 
flying fish ; at the word of command , the boat alternately UNK 
out of the way of the whale ' s horrible wallow , and then ranging up for 
another fling . 
the red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down a 
hill . his tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood , which UNK 
and UNK for furlongs behind in their wake . the slanting sun playing 
upon this crimson UNK in the sea , sent back its reflection into every 
face , so that they all UNK to each other like red men . and all 
the while , jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot from the 
spiracle of the whale , and UNK puff after puff from the mouth of 
the excited headsman ; as at every dart , hauling in upon his crooked 
lance ( by the line attached to it ) , stubb straightened it again and 
again , by a few rapid blows against the gunwale , then again and again 
sent it into the whale . 
" pull up - pull up ! " he now cried to the bowsman , as the waning whale 
relaxed in his wrath . " pull up ! - close to ! " and the boat ranged along 
the fish ' s flank . when reaching far over the bow , stubb slowly churned 
his long sharp lance into the fish , and kept it there , carefully 
churning and churning , as if UNK seeking to feel after some gold 
watch that the whale might have swallowed , and which he was fearful of 
breaking ere he could hook it out . but that gold watch he sought was the 
innermost life of the fish . and now it is struck ; for , starting from 
his trance into that unspeakable thing called his " flurry , " the monster 
horribly UNK in his blood , UNK himself in impenetrable , 
mad , boiling spray , so that the imperilled craft , instantly dropping 
astern , had much ado blindly to struggle out from that UNK 
twilight into the clear air of the day . 
and now UNK in his flurry , the whale once more rolled out into view ; 
surging from side to side ; spasmodically UNK and contracting his 
spout - hole , with sharp , cracking , agonized UNK . at last , gush 
after gush of clotted red gore , as if it had been the purple lees of red 
wine , shot into the frighted air ; and falling back again , ran dripping 
down his motionless flanks into the sea . his heart had burst ! 
" he ' s dead , mr . stubb , " said daggoo . 
" yes ; both pipes smoked out ! " and withdrawing his own from his mouth , 
stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water ; and , for a moment , stood 
UNK eyeing the vast corpse he had made . 
chapter UNK . the dart . 
a word concerning an incident in the last chapter . 
according to the invariable usage of the fishery , the whale - boat UNK 
off from the ship , with the headsman or whale - killer as temporary 
steersman , and the harpooneer or whale - UNK pulling the foremost 
oar , the one known as the harpooneer - oar . now it needs a strong , nervous 
arm to strike the first iron into the fish ; for often , in what is called 
a long dart , the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of 
twenty or thirty feet . but however prolonged and UNK the chase , 
the harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost ; 
indeed , he is expected to set an example of UNK activity to the 
rest , not only by incredible rowing , but by repeated loud and intrepid 
exclamations ; and what it is to keep shouting at the top of one ' s 
compass , while all the other muscles are strained and half started - what 
that is none know but those who have tried it . for one , i cannot UNK 
very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same time . in this 
straining , UNK state , then , with his back to the fish , all at once 
the exhausted harpooneer hears the UNK cry - " stand up , and give it 
to him ! " he now has to drop and secure his oar , turn round on his 
centre half way , seize his harpoon from the crotch , and with what little 
strength may remain , he essays to pitch it somehow into the whale . no 
wonder , taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body , that out of fifty 
fair chances for a dart , not five are successful ; no wonder that so many 
hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and UNK ; no wonder that some 
of them actually burst their blood - vessels in the boat ; no wonder that 
some sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels ; no wonder 
that to many ship owners , whaling is but a losing concern ; for it is the 
harpooneer that makes the voyage , and if you take the breath out of his 
body how can you expect to find it there when most wanted ! 
again , if the dart be successful , then at the second critical instant , 
that is , when the whale starts to run , the UNK and harpooneer 
likewise start to running fore and aft , to the imminent jeopardy of 
themselves and every one else . it is then they change places ; and 
the headsman , the chief officer of the little craft , takes his proper 
UNK in the bows of the boat . 
now , i care not who maintains the contrary , but all this is both foolish 
and unnecessary . the headsman should stay in the bows from first to 
last ; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance , and no rowing 
whatever should be expected of him , except under circumstances obvious 
to any fisherman . i know that this would sometimes involve a slight loss 
of speed in the chase ; but long experience in various whalemen of more 
than one nation has convinced me that in the vast majority of failures 
in the fishery , it has not by any means been so much the speed of the 
whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer that has 
caused them . 
to insure the greatest UNK in the dart , the harpooneers of this 
world must start to their feet from out of idleness , and not from out of 
toil . 
chapter UNK . the crotch . 
out of the trunk , the branches grow ; out of them , the UNK . so , in 
UNK subjects , grow the chapters . 
the crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention . 
it is a UNK stick of a peculiar form , some two feet in length , which 
is perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow , 
for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the 
harpoon , whose other naked , barbed end UNK projects from the prow . 
thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its UNK , who snatches it 
up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from 
the wall . it is customary to have two harpoons UNK in the crotch , 
respectively called the first and second irons . 
but these two harpoons , each by its own cord , are both connected with 
the line ; the object being this : to dart them both , if possible , one 
instantly after the other into the same whale ; so that if , in the coming 
drag , one should draw out , the other may still retain a hold . it is a 
UNK of the chances . but it very often happens that owing to the 
instantaneous , violent , UNK running of the whale upon receiving 
the first iron , it becomes impossible for the harpooneer , however 
lightning - like in his movements , to pitch the second iron into him . 
nevertheless , as the second iron is already connected with the line , 
and the line is running , hence that weapon must , at all events , be 
UNK tossed out of the boat , somehow and somewhere ; else the 
most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands . tumbled into the water , 
it accordingly is in such cases ; the spare coils of box line ( mentioned 
in a preceding chapter ) making this feat , in most instances , UNK 
practicable . but this critical act is not always unattended with the 
saddest and most fatal casualties . 
furthermore : you must know that when the second iron is thrown 
overboard , it UNK becomes a UNK , sharp - edged terror , 
UNK UNK about both boat and whale , UNK the lines , 
or cutting them , and making a prodigious sensation in all directions . 
nor , in general , is it possible to secure it again until the whale is 
fairly captured and a corpse . 
consider , now , how it must be in the case of four boats all UNK 
one unusually strong , active , and knowing whale ; when owing to these 
qualities in him , as well as to the thousand UNK accidents of 
such an audacious enterprise , eight or ten loose second irons may be 
simultaneously UNK about him . for , of course , each boat is supplied 
with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one 
be UNK darted without recovery . all these particulars are 
faithfully narrated here , as they will not fail to UNK several 
most important , however intricate UNK , in scenes hereafter to be 
painted . 
chapter UNK . stubb ' s supper . 
stubb ' s whale had been killed some distance from the ship . it was 
a calm ; so , forming a tandem of three boats , we commenced the slow 
business of towing the trophy to the pequod . and now , as we eighteen men 
with our thirty - six arms , and one hundred and eighty UNK and fingers , 
slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert , UNK corpse in the 
sea ; and it seemed hardly to budge at all , except at long intervals ; 
good UNK was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass we 
moved . for , upon the great canal of hang - ho , or whatever they call 
it , in china , four or five laborers on the foot - path will draw a bulky 
freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour ; but this grand UNK we 
towed heavily forged along , as if laden with pig - lead in bulk . 
darkness came on ; but three lights up and down in the pequod ' s 
main - rigging dimly guided our way ; till drawing nearer we saw ahab 
dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks . vacantly eyeing 
the heaving whale for a moment , he issued the usual orders for securing 
it for the night , and then UNK his lantern to a seaman , went his way 
into the cabin , and did not come forward again until morning . 
though , in overseeing the pursuit of this whale , captain ahab had 
evinced his customary activity , to call it so ; yet now that the creature 
was dead , some vague UNK , or impatience , or despair , seemed 
working in him ; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that 
moby dick was yet to be slain ; and though a thousand other whales were 
brought to his ship , all that would not one jot advance his grand , 
monomaniac object . very soon you would have thought from the sound on 
the pequod ' s decks , that all hands were preparing to cast anchor in 
the deep ; for heavy chains are being dragged along the deck , and thrust 
rattling out of the port - holes . but by those clanking links , the vast 
corpse itself , not the ship , is to be moored . tied by the head to the 
stern , and by the tail to the bows , the whale now lies with its black 
hull close to the vessel ' s and seen through the darkness of the night , 
which obscured the spars and rigging aloft , the two - ship and whale , 
seemed yoked together like colossal UNK , whereof one UNK while 
the other remains standing . * 
* a little item may as well be related here . the strongest and most 
reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside , 
is by the flukes or tail ; and as from its greater density that part 
is UNK heavier than any other ( excepting the side - fins ) , its 
UNK even in death , causes it to sink low beneath the surface ; so 
that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat , in order to 
put the chain round it . but this difficulty is UNK UNK : a 
small , strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end , and 
a weight in its middle , while the other end is secured to the ship . by 
UNK management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side 
of the mass , so that now having girdled the whale , the chain is readily 
made to follow suit ; and being slipped along the body , is at last locked 
fast round the smallest part of the tail , at the point of junction with 
its broad flukes or lobes . 
if moody ahab was now all UNK , at least so far as could be known 
on deck , stubb , his second mate , UNK with UNK , betrayed an 
unusual but still good - natured excitement . such an unwonted UNK was 
he in that the staid starbuck , his official superior , quietly UNK 
to him for the time the sole management of affairs . one small , helping 
cause of all this liveliness in stubb , was soon made strangely UNK . 
stubb was a high liver ; he was somewhat UNK fond of the whale 
as a UNK thing to his UNK . 
" a steak , a steak , ere i sleep ! you , daggoo ! overboard you go , and cut 
me one from his small ! " 
here be it known , that though these wild fishermen do not , as a general 
thing , and according to the great military maxim , make the enemy UNK 
the current UNK of the war ( at least before UNK the proceeds 
of the voyage ) , yet now and then you find some of these nantucketers 
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the sperm whale 
designated by stubb ; comprising the tapering extremity of the body . 
about midnight that steak was cut and cooked ; and lighted by two 
lanterns of sperm oil , stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper 
at the capstan - head , as if that capstan were a sideboard . nor was stubb 
the only UNK on whale ' s flesh that night . UNK their mumblings 
with his own UNK , thousands on thousands of sharks , swarming 
round the dead leviathan , UNK UNK on its UNK . the few 
sleepers below in their UNK were often startled by the sharp UNK 
of their tails against the hull , within a few inches of the sleepers ' 
hearts . peering over the side you could just see them ( as before you 
heard them ) wallowing in the sullen , black waters , and turning over on 
their backs as they UNK out huge globular pieces of the whale of the 
bigness of a human head . this particular feat of the shark seems all 
but miraculous . how at such an apparently UNK surface , they 
UNK to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls , remains a part of the 
universal problem of all things . the mark they thus leave on the whale , 
may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in UNK 
for a screw . 
though amid all the smoking horror and UNK of a sea - fight , sharks 
will be seen UNK gazing up to the ship ' s decks , like hungry dogs 
round a table where red meat is being carved , ready to bolt down 
every killed man that is tossed to them ; and though , while the valiant 
butchers over the deck - table are thus UNK carving each other ' s 
live meat with carving - knives all gilded and tasselled , the sharks , 
also , with their jewel - UNK mouths , are UNK carving away 
under the table at the dead meat ; and though , were you to turn the whole 
affair UNK down , it would still be pretty much the same thing , that 
is to say , a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties ; and 
though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships 
crossing the atlantic , systematically UNK alongside , to be handy in 
case a parcel is to be carried anywhere , or a dead slave to be decently 
buried ; and though one or two other like instances might be set down , 
touching the set terms , places , and occasions , when sharks do most 
socially UNK , and most UNK feast ; yet is there no 
conceivable time or occasion when you will find them in such countless 
numbers , and in gayer or more UNK spirits , than around a dead sperm 
whale , moored by night to a UNK at sea . if you have never 
seen that sight , then suspend your UNK about the propriety of 
devil - worship , and the UNK of UNK the devil . 
but , as yet , stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was 
going on so nigh him , no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of his 
own UNK lips . 
" cook , cook ! - where ' s that old fleece ? " he cried at length , UNK 
his legs still further , as if to form a more secure base for his supper ; 
and , at the same time darting his fork into the dish , as if stabbing 
with his lance ; " cook , you cook ! - sail this way , cook ! " 
the old black , not in any very high UNK at having been previously 
UNK from his warm hammock at a most UNK hour , came UNK 
along from his UNK , for , like many old blacks , there was something 
the matter with his knee - pans , which he did not keep well UNK like 
his other pans ; this old fleece , as they called him , came shuffling and 
limping along , UNK his step with his tongs , which , after a clumsy 
fashion , were made of straightened iron hoops ; this old ebony UNK 
along , and in obedience to the word of command , came to a dead stop on 
the opposite side of stubb ' s sideboard ; when , with both hands folded 
before him , and resting on his two - legged cane , he bowed his arched back 
still further over , at the same time sideways UNK his head , so as 
to bring his best ear into play . 
" cook , " said stubb , rapidly lifting a rather UNK UNK to his 
mouth , " don ' t you think this steak is rather UNK ? you ' ve been 
beating this steak too much , cook ; it ' s too tender . don ' t i always say 
that to be good , a whale - steak must be tough ? there are those sharks 
now over the side , don ' t you see they prefer it tough and rare ? what a 
UNK they are kicking up ! cook , go and talk to ' em ; tell ' em they are 
welcome to help themselves UNK , and in UNK , but they must 
keep quiet . blast me , if i can hear my own voice . away , cook , and 
UNK my message . here , take this lantern , " snatching one from his 
sideboard ; " now then , go and preach to ' em ! " 
sullenly taking the offered lantern , old fleece limped across the deck 
to the bulwarks ; and then , with one hand dropping his light low over the 
sea , so as to get a good view of his congregation , with the other hand 
he solemnly flourished his tongs , and leaning far over the side in a 
mumbling voice began addressing the sharks , while stubb , softly crawling 
behind , overheard all that was said . 
" fellow - critters : i ' UNK ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam 
noise dare . you hear ? stop dat dam UNK ' ob de lips ! massa stubb say 
dat you can fill your dam bellies up to de UNK , but by gor ! you 
must stop dat dam UNK ! " 
" cook , " here interposed stubb , accompanying the word with a sudden slap 
on the shoulder , - " cook ! why , damn your eyes , you UNK ' t swear that way 
when you ' re preaching . that ' s no way to convert sinners , cook ! " 
" who dat ? den preach to him yourself , " sullenly turning to go . 
" no , cook ; go on , go on . " 
" well , den , UNK fellow - critters : " - 
" right ! " exclaimed stubb , UNK , " UNK ' em to it ; try that , " and 
fleece continued . 
" do you is all sharks , and by natur UNK UNK , yet i UNK to you , 
fellow - critters , dat dat UNK - ' top dat dam slappin ' ob de 
tail ! how you UNK to hear , spose you keep up such a dam slappin ' and 
UNK ' dare ? " 
" cook , " cried stubb , UNK him , " i won ' t have that swearing . talk to 
' em gentlemanly . " 
once more the sermon proceeded . 
" your UNK , fellow - critters , i don ' t blame ye so much for ; dat 
is natur , and can ' t be helped ; but to gobern dat wicked natur , dat is de 
pint . you is sharks , UNK ; but if you gobern de shark in you , why den 
you be angel ; for all angel is not ' UNK more dan de shark well UNK . 
now , look here , bred ' UNK , just try UNK to be UNK , a helping 
UNK from dat whale . don ' t be UNK ' de blubber out your 
UNK ' s mout , i say . is not one shark UNK right as UNK to dat 
whale ? and , by gor , none on you has de right to dat whale ; dat whale 
belong to some one else . i know some o ' you has berry brig mout , UNK 
dan UNK ; but den de brig UNK sometimes has de small bellies ; so dat 
de UNK of de mout is not to UNK wid , but to bit off de blubber 
for de small UNK ob sharks , dat can ' t get into de UNK to help 
UNK . " 
" well done , old fleece ! " cried stubb , " that ' s UNK ; go on . " 
" no use goin ' on ; de dam UNK will keep a UNK ' and slappin ' each 
UNK , massa stubb ; dey don ' t hear one word ; no use a - preaching to 
such dam UNK ' UNK as you call ' em , till dare bellies is full , and dare 
bellies is bottomless ; and when dey do get ' em full , dey wont hear you 
den ; for den dey sink in the sea , go fast to sleep on de coral , and 
can ' t hear noting at all , no more , for eber and eber . " 
" upon my soul , i am about of the same opinion ; so give the benediction , 
fleece , and i ' ll away to my supper . " 
upon this , fleece , holding both hands over the fishy mob , raised his 
UNK voice , and cried - 
" UNK fellow - critters ! kick up de UNK row as ever you can ; fill 
your dam bellies ' till dey bust - and den die . " 
" now , cook , " said stubb , resuming his supper at the capstan ; " stand 
just where you stood before , there , over against me , and pay particular 
attention . " 
" all ' dention , " said fleece , again stooping over upon his tongs in the 
desired position . 
" well , " said stubb , helping himself freely meanwhile ; " i shall now go 
back to the subject of this steak . in the first place , how old are you , 
cook ? " 
" what dat do wid de ' teak , " said the old black , UNK . 
" silence ! how old are you , cook ? " 
" ' UNK ninety , dey say , " he gloomily muttered . 
" and you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years , cook , 
and don ' t know yet how to cook a whale - steak ? " rapidly UNK another 
mouthful at the last word , so that UNK seemed a UNK of the 
question . " where were you born , cook ? " 
" ' UNK de hatchway , in ferry - boat , goin ' UNK de UNK . " 
" born in a ferry - boat ! that ' s queer , too . but i want to know what 
country you were born in , cook ! " 
" didn ' t i say de UNK country ? " he cried sharply . 
" no , you didn ' t , cook ; but i ' ll tell you what i ' m coming to , cook . 
you must go home and be born over again ; you don ' t know how to cook a 
whale - steak yet . " 
" UNK my soul , if i cook UNK one , " he UNK , UNK , turning round 
to depart . 
" come back here , cook ; - here , hand me those tongs ; - now take that bit of 
steak there , and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be ? 
take it , i say " - holding the tongs towards him - " take it , and taste it . " 
faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment , the old negro 
muttered , " best cooked ' teak i eber taste ; joosy , berry joosy . " 
" cook , " said stubb , squaring himself once more ; " do you belong to the 
church ? " 
" passed one once in cape - down , " said the old man sullenly . 
" and you have once in your life passed a holy church in cape - town , where 
you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his 
beloved fellow - creatures , have you , cook ! and yet you come here , and 
tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now , eh ? " said stubb . " where 
do you expect to go to , cook ? " 
" go to bed berry soon , " he UNK , half - turning as he spoke . 
" avast ! heave to ! i mean when you die , cook . it ' s an awful question . now 
what ' s your answer ? " 
" when UNK old UNK man dies , " said the negro slowly , changing his whole 
air and UNK , " he hisself won ' t go nowhere ; but some bressed angel 
will come and fetch him . " 
" fetch him ? how ? in a coach and four , as they UNK elijah ? and fetch 
him where ? " 
" up UNK , " said fleece , holding his tongs straight over his head , and 
keeping it there very solemnly . 
" so , then , you expect to go up into our main - top , do you , cook , when you 
are dead ? but don ' t you know the higher you climb , the UNK it gets ? 
main - top , eh ? " 
" didn ' t say dat t ' all , " said fleece , again in the UNK . 
" you said up there , didn ' t you ? and now look yourself , and see where 
your tongs are pointing . but , perhaps you expect to get into heaven by 
crawling through the lubber ' s hole , cook ; but , no , no , cook , you don ' t 
get there , except you go the regular way , round by the rigging . it ' s a 
ticklish business , but must be done , or else it ' s no go . but none of 
us are in heaven yet . drop your tongs , cook , and hear my orders . do ye 
hear ? hold your hat in one hand , and clap t ' other a ' top of your heart , 
when i ' m giving my orders , cook . what ! that your heart , there ? - that ' s 
your UNK ! aloft ! aloft ! - that ' s it - now you have it . hold it there 
now , and pay attention . " 
" all ' dention , " said the old black , with both hands placed as desired , 
vainly wriggling his grizzled head , as if to get both ears in front at 
one and the same time . 
" well then , cook , you see this whale - steak of yours was so very bad , 
that i have put it out of sight as soon as possible ; you see that , don ' t 
you ? well , for the future , when you cook another whale - steak for my 
private table here , the capstan , i ' ll tell you what to do so as not to 
spoil it by UNK . hold the steak in one hand , and show a live coal 
to it with the other ; that done , dish it ; d ' ye hear ? and now to - morrow , 
cook , when we are cutting in the fish , be sure you stand by to get 
the UNK of his fins ; have them put in pickle . as for the ends of the 
flukes , have them UNK , cook . there , now ye may go . " 
but fleece had hardly got three paces off , when he was recalled . 
" cook , give me UNK for supper to - morrow night in the mid - watch . 
d ' ye hear ? away you sail , then . - halloa ! stop ! make a bow before you 
go . - avast heaving again ! whale - balls for breakfast - don ' t forget . " 
" wish , by gor ! whale eat him , ' UNK of him eat whale . i ' m bressed if 
he ain ' t more of shark dan massa shark hisself , " muttered the old man , 
limping away ; with which sage UNK he went to his hammock . 
chapter UNK . the whale as a dish . 
that mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp , and , 
like stubb , eat him by his own light , as you may say ; this seems so 
outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and 
philosophy of it . 
it is upon record , that three centuries ago the tongue of the right 
whale was esteemed a great delicacy in france , and commanded large 
UNK there . also , that in UNK UNK ' s time , a certain cook of the 
UNK obtained a handsome reward for UNK an admirable UNK to be 
eaten with UNK porpoises , which , you remember , are a species of 
whale . porpoises , indeed , are to this day considered fine eating . the 
meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls , and being well 
seasoned and spiced might be taken for UNK - balls or UNK balls . 
the old UNK of UNK were very fond of them . they had a great 
porpoise grant from the crown . 
the fact is , that among his hunters at least , the whale would by all 
hands be considered a noble dish , were there not so much of him ; but 
when you come to sit down before a meat - pie nearly one hundred feet 
long , it takes away your appetite . only the most UNK of men 
like stubb , nowadays UNK of cooked whales ; but the esquimaux are not 
so fastidious . we all know how they live upon whales , and have rare 
old UNK of prime old train oil . UNK , one of their most famous 
doctors , UNK UNK of blubber for infants , as being exceedingly 
juicy and UNK . and this reminds me that certain UNK , who 
long ago were accidentally left in greenland by a whaling vessel - that 
these men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of 
whales which had been left ashore after trying out the blubber . among 
the dutch whalemen these scraps are called " fritters " ; which , indeed , 
they greatly UNK , being brown and crisp , and smelling something 
like old amsterdam UNK ' dough - UNK or UNK - cooks , when fresh . they 
have such an UNK look that the most self - denying stranger can hardly 
keep his hands off . 
but what further UNK the whale as a civilized dish , is his 
exceeding richness . he is the great prize ox of the sea , too fat to be 
UNK good . look at his hump , which would be as fine eating as 
the buffalo ' s ( which is esteemed a rare dish ) , were it not such a solid 
pyramid of fat . but the spermaceti itself , how bland and creamy that 
is ; like the transparent , half - UNK , white meat of a UNK in the 
third month of its growth , yet far too rich to supply a substitute for 
butter . nevertheless , many whalemen have a method of UNK it into 
some other substance , and then partaking of it . in the long try 
watches of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their 
ship - biscuit into the huge oil - pots and let them UNK there awhile . many 
a good supper have i thus made . 
in the case of a small sperm whale the brains are accounted a fine dish . 
the casket of the skull is broken into with an axe , and the two plump , 
whitish lobes being withdrawn ( precisely resembling two large UNK ) , 
they are then mixed with UNK , and cooked into a most UNK mess , 
in flavor somewhat resembling calves ' head , which is quite a dish among 
some epicures ; and every one knows that some young UNK among the 
epicures , by continually dining upon calves ' brains , by and by get to 
have a little brains of their own , so as to be able to tell a 
calf ' s head from their own heads ; which , indeed , requires uncommon 
UNK . and that is the reason why a young buck with an 
intelligent looking calf ' s head before him , is somehow one of the 
saddest sights you can see . the head looks a sort of UNK at 
him , with an " et UNK brute ! " expression . 
it is not , perhaps , entirely because the whale is so UNK 
unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with UNK ; 
that appears to result , in some way , from the consideration before 
mentioned : i . e . that a man should eat a newly murdered thing of the sea , 
and eat it too by its own light . but no doubt the first man that ever 
murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer ; perhaps he was hung ; and if 
he had been put on his trial by oxen , he certainly would have been ; and 
he certainly deserved it if any murderer does . go to the meat - market 
of a saturday night and see the crowds of live UNK staring up at the 
long rows of dead UNK . does not that sight take a tooth out of 
the cannibal ' s jaw ? cannibals ? who is not a cannibal ? i tell you it will 
be more tolerable for the fejee that salted down a lean missionary in 
his cellar against a coming famine ; it will be more tolerable for that 
UNK fejee , i say , in the day of judgment , than for thee , civilized 
and enlightened gourmand , who UNK UNK to the ground and UNK 
on their UNK livers in thy UNK - de - UNK - UNK . 
but stubb , he eats the whale by its own light , does he ? and that is 
adding insult to injury , is it ? look at your knife - handle , there , my 
civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef , what is 
that handle made of ? - what but the bones of the brother of the very ox 
you are eating ? and what do you pick your teeth with , after devouring 
that fat UNK ? with a feather of the same fowl . and with what quill did 
the UNK of the society for the UNK of UNK to UNK 
UNK UNK his UNK ? it is only within the last month or two 
that that society passed a resolution to UNK nothing but steel 
UNK . 
chapter UNK . the shark UNK . 
when in the southern fishery , a captured sperm whale , after long and 
weary toil , is brought alongside late at night , it is not , as a general 
thing at least , customary to proceed at once to the business of cutting 
him in . for that business is an exceedingly laborious one ; is not very 
soon completed ; and requires all hands to set about it . therefore , the 
common usage is to take in all sail ; lash the helm a ' lee ; and then send 
every one below to his hammock till daylight , with the UNK that , 
until that time , anchor - watches shall be kept ; that is , two and two for 
an hour , each couple , the crew in UNK shall mount the deck to see 
that all goes well . 
but sometimes , especially upon the line in the pacific , this plan will 
not answer at all ; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gather 
round the moored carcase , that were he left so for six hours , say , on a 
stretch , little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning . 
in most other parts of the ocean , however , where these fish do not so 
largely abound , their wondrous UNK can be at times considerably 
diminished , by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling - spades , 
a procedure notwithstanding , which , in some instances , only seems to 
UNK them into still greater activity . but it was not thus in the 
present case with the pequod ' s sharks ; though , to be sure , any man 
UNK to such sights , to have looked over her side that night , 
would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese , and 
those sharks the UNK in it . 
nevertheless , upon stubb setting the anchor - watch after his supper was 
concluded ; and when , accordingly , queequeg and a forecastle seaman 
came on deck , no small excitement was created among the sharks ; for 
immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side , and lowering 
three lanterns , so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid 
sea , these two mariners , darting their long whaling - spades , kept up an 
incessant murdering of the sharks , * by striking the keen steel deep 
into their skulls , seemingly their only vital part . but in the UNK 
confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts , the UNK could not 
always hit their mark ; and this brought about new UNK of the 
incredible ferocity of the foe . they UNK snapped , not only at each 
other ' s UNK , but like flexible bows , bent round , and bit 
their own ; till those UNK seemed swallowed over and over again by 
the same mouth , to be UNK UNK by the gaping wound . nor was 
this all . it was UNK to meddle with the UNK and ghosts of these 
creatures . a sort of generic or pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk in 
their very joints and bones , after what might be called the individual 
life had departed . killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin , 
one of these sharks almost took poor queequeg ' s hand off , when he tried 
to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw . 
* the whaling - spade used for cutting - in is made of the very best steel ; 
is about the bigness of a man ' s spread hand ; and in general shape , 
UNK to the garden implement after which it is named ; only its 
sides are perfectly flat , and its upper end considerably UNK than 
the lower . this weapon is always kept as sharp as possible ; and when 
being used is occasionally UNK , just like a razor . in its socket , a 
stiff pole , from twenty to thirty feet long , is inserted for a handle . 
" queequeg no care what god made him shark , " said the savage , agonizingly 
lifting his hand up and down ; " UNK fejee god or nantucket god ; but de 
god UNK made shark must be one dam UNK . " 
chapter UNK . cutting in . 
it was a saturday night , and such a sabbath as followed ! ex officio 
UNK of sabbath breaking are all whalemen . the ivory pequod was 
turned into what seemed a UNK ; every sailor a UNK . you would 
have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods . 
in the first place , the enormous cutting tackles , among other ponderous 
things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green , and which 
no single man can possibly lift - this vast bunch of grapes was swayed up 
to the main - top and firmly lashed to the lower mast - head , the strongest 
point anywhere above a ship ' s deck . the end of the UNK - like rope 
winding through these intricacies , was then conducted to the windlass , 
and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale ; to 
this block the great blubber hook , weighing some one hundred pounds , was 
attached . and now suspended in stages over the side , starbuck and stubb , 
the mates , armed with their long spades , began cutting a hole in the 
body for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two 
side - fins . this done , a broad , semicircular line is cut round the hole , 
the hook is inserted , and the main body of the crew striking up a wild 
chorus , now commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass . when 
instantly , the entire ship careens over on her side ; every bolt in 
her starts like the nail - heads of an old house in frosty weather ; she 
trembles , quivers , and nods her frighted mast - heads to the sky . more 
and more she UNK over to the whale , while every gasping heave of the 
windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows ; till at last , 
a swift , startling snap is heard ; with a great UNK the ship rolls 
upwards and backwards from the whale , and the triumphant tackle rises 
into sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the 
first strip of blubber . now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely 
as the UNK does an orange , so is it stripped off from the body 
precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by UNK it . for the 
strain constantly kept up by the windlass continually keeps the whale 
rolling over and over in the water , and as the blubber in one strip 
UNK peels off along the line called the " UNK , " simultaneously 
cut by the spades of starbuck and stubb , the mates ; and just as fast as 
it is thus peeled off , and indeed by that very act itself , it is all the 
time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end UNK the 
main - top ; the men at the windlass then cease heaving , and for a moment 
or two the prodigious blood - dripping mass UNK to and fro as if let 
down from the sky , and every one present must take good heed to dodge 
it when it swings , else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong 
overboard . 
one of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long , keen weapon 
called a boarding - sword , and watching his chance he UNK UNK 
out a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass . into this 
hole , the end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked 
so as to retain a hold upon the blubber , in order to prepare for what 
follows . whereupon , this accomplished UNK , warning all hands to 
stand off , once more makes a scientific dash at the mass , and with a few 
sidelong , desperate , lunging UNK , UNK it completely in twain ; 
so that while the short lower part is still fast , the long upper strip , 
called a blanket - piece , swings clear , and is all ready for lowering . 
the UNK forward now resume their song , and while the one tackle is 
UNK and hoisting a second strip from the whale , the other is slowly 
slackened away , and down goes the first strip through the main hatchway 
right beneath , into an UNK parlor called the blubber - room . into 
this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling away the long 
blanket - piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited serpents . 
and thus the work proceeds ; the two tackles hoisting and lowering 
simultaneously ; both whale and windlass heaving , the UNK singing , 
the blubber - room gentlemen coiling , the mates UNK , the ship 
straining , and all hands swearing occasionally , by way of UNK the 
general UNK . 
chapter UNK . the blanket . 
i have given no small attention to that not UNK subject , the skin of 
the whale . i have had UNK about it with experienced whalemen 
afloat , and learned naturalists ashore . my original opinion remains 
UNK ; but it is only an opinion . 
the question is , what and where is the skin of the whale ? already you 
know what his blubber is . that blubber is something of the UNK 
of firm , close - UNK beef , but UNK , more elastic and compact , and 
UNK from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness . 
now , however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature ' s 
skin as being of that sort of UNK and thickness , yet in point 
of fact these are no UNK against such a presumption ; because you 
cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the whale ' s body but 
that same blubber ; and the outermost enveloping layer of any animal , if 
reasonably dense , what can that be but the skin ? true , from the UNK 
dead body of the whale , you may scrape off with your hand an infinitely 
thin , transparent substance , somewhat resembling the UNK shreds 
of isinglass , only it is almost as flexible and soft as satin ; that is , 
previous to being dried , when it not only UNK and UNK , but 
becomes rather hard and brittle . i have several such dried bits , which 
i use for marks in my whale - books . it is transparent , as i said before ; 
and being laid upon the printed page , i have sometimes pleased myself 
with fancying it UNK a magnifying influence . at any rate , it is 
pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles , as you may 
say . but what i am driving at here is this . that same infinitely thin , 
isinglass substance , which , i admit , invests the entire body of the 
whale , is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature , as 
the skin of the skin , so to speak ; for it were simply ridiculous to say , 
that the proper skin of the tremendous whale is UNK and more tender 
than the skin of a new - born child . but no more of this . 
assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale ; then , when this skin , 
as in the case of a very large sperm whale , will yield the bulk of one 
hundred barrels of oil ; and , when it is considered that , in quantity , or 
rather weight , that oil , in its expressed state , is only three fourths , 
and not the entire substance of the coat ; some idea may hence be had 
of the enormousness of that animated mass , a mere part of whose mere 
UNK yields such a lake of liquid as that . reckoning ten barrels 
to the ton , you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters 
of the stuff of the whale ' s skin . 
in life , the visible surface of the sperm whale is not the least among 
the many marvels he presents . almost invariably it is all over obliquely 
crossed and re - crossed with numberless straight marks in thick array , 
something like those in the finest italian line engravings . but these 
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above 
mentioned , but seem to be seen through it , as if they were engraved 
upon the body itself . nor is this all . in some instances , to the quick , 
UNK eye , those linear marks , as in a veritable engraving , but 
afford the ground for far other delineations . these are UNK ; 
that is , if you call those mysterious UNK on the walls of pyramids 
hieroglyphics , then that is the proper word to use in the present 
connexion . by my UNK memory of the hieroglyphics upon one sperm 
whale in particular , i was much struck with a plate representing the old 
indian UNK chiselled on the famous UNK UNK on 
the banks of the upper mississippi . like those mystic rocks , too , the 
mystic - marked whale remains UNK . this allusion to the indian 
rocks reminds me of another thing . besides all the other UNK which 
the exterior of the sperm whale presents , he not seldom UNK the 
back , and more especially his flanks , effaced in great part of the 
regular linear appearance , by reason of numerous rude UNK , 
altogether of an irregular , random aspect . i should say that those new 
england rocks on the sea - coast , which UNK UNK to bear the marks 
of violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs - i should say , 
that those rocks must not a little UNK the sperm whale in this 
particular . it also seems to me that such UNK in the whale are 
probably made by hostile contact with other whales ; for i have most 
UNK them in the large , full - grown bulls of the species . 
a word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of 
the whale . it has already been said , that it is stript from him in long 
pieces , called blanket - pieces . like most sea - terms , this one is very 
happy and significant . for the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber 
as in a real blanket or counterpane ; or , still better , an indian UNK 
UNK over his head , and UNK his extremity . it is by reason of this 
cosy UNK of his body , that the whale is enabled to keep himself 
comfortable in all UNK , in all seas , times , and tides . what would 
become of a greenland whale , say , in those shuddering , icy seas of the 
north , if unsupplied with his cosy UNK ? true , other fish are 
found exceedingly brisk in those hyperborean waters ; but these , be it 
observed , are your cold - blooded , UNK fish , whose very bellies 
are UNK ; creatures , that warm themselves under the lee of 
an iceberg , as a traveller in winter would UNK before an inn fire ; 
whereas , like man , the whale has lungs and warm blood . UNK his blood , 
and he dies . how wonderful is it then - except after UNK - that 
this great monster , to whom corporeal warmth is as indispensable as it 
is to man ; how wonderful that he should be found at home , immersed 
to his lips for life in those arctic waters ! where , when seamen fall 
overboard , they are sometimes found , months afterwards , perpendicularly 
frozen into the hearts of fields of ice , as a fly is found glued 
in amber . but more surprising is it to know , as has been proved by 
experiment , that the blood of a polar whale is UNK than that of a 
UNK negro in summer . 
it does seem to me , that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong 
individual vitality , and the rare virtue of thick walls , and the rare 
virtue of interior UNK . oh , man ! admire and model thyself after 
the whale ! do thou , too , remain warm among ice . do thou , too , live in 
this world without being of it . be cool at the equator ; keep thy blood 
fluid at the pole . like the great dome of st . peter ' s , and like the 
great whale , retain , o man ! in all seasons a temperature of thine own . 
but how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things ! of UNK , 
how few are UNK like st . peter ' s ! of creatures , how few vast as the 
whale ! 
chapter UNK . the funeral . 
haul in the chains ! let the carcase go astern ! 
the vast tackles have now done their duty . the peeled white body of the 
beheaded whale flashes like a marble UNK ; though changed in hue , 
it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk . it is still colossal . 
slowly it floats more and more away , the water round it torn and 
UNK by the insatiate sharks , and the air above vexed with rapacious 
flights of screaming fowls , whose UNK are like so many insulting 
UNK in the whale . the vast white UNK phantom floats further 
and further from the ship , and every rod that it so floats , what seem 
square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls , augment the murderous 
din . for hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous 
sight is seen . beneath the UNK and mild azure sky , upon the fair 
face of the pleasant sea , UNK by the UNK breezes , that great mass 
of death floats on and on , till lost in infinite UNK . 
there ' s a most UNK and most mocking funeral ! the sea - UNK all in 
pious mourning , the air - sharks all UNK in black or UNK . 
in life but few of them would have helped the whale , i UNK , if 
peradventure he had needed it ; but upon the banquet of his funeral they 
most UNK do UNK . oh , horrible UNK of earth ! from which not 
the mightiest whale is free . 
nor is this the end . UNK as the body is , a vengeful ghost 
UNK and hovers over it to UNK . UNK by some timid man - of - war or 
UNK discovery - vessel from afar , when the distance UNK the 
swarming fowls , nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in 
the sun , and the white spray heaving high against it ; straightway the 
whale ' s UNK corpse , with trembling fingers is set down in the 
log - shoals , rocks , and breakers hereabouts : beware ! and for years 
afterwards , perhaps , ships shun the place ; leaping over it as silly 
sheep leap over a UNK , because their leader originally leaped there 
when a stick was held . there ' s your law of UNK ; there ' s your 
UNK of traditions ; there ' s the story of your obstinate UNK of 
old UNK never UNK on the earth , and now not even hovering in 
the air ! there ' s UNK ! 
thus , while in life the great whale ' s body may have been a real terror 
to his foes , in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a 
world . 
are you a believer in ghosts , my friend ? there are other ghosts than 
the cock - UNK one , and far deeper men than UNK johnson who believe in 
them . 
chapter UNK . the sphynx . 
it should not have been omitted that previous to completely UNK 
the body of the leviathan , he was beheaded . now , the UNK of the 
sperm whale is a scientific anatomical feat , upon which experienced 
whale surgeons very much pride themselves : and not without reason . 
consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck ; 
on the contrary , where his head and body seem to join , there , in that 
very place , is the thickest part of him . remember , also , that the 
surgeon must UNK from above , some eight or ten feet intervening 
between him and his subject , and that subject almost hidden in a 
discoloured , rolling , and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea . bear 
in mind , too , that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut many 
feet deep in the flesh ; and in that subterraneous manner , without so 
much as getting one single peep into the ever - contracting gash thus 
made , he must UNK steer clear of all adjacent , UNK parts , 
and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion 
into the skull . do you not marvel , then , at stubb ' s boast , that he 
demanded but ten minutes to UNK a sperm whale ? 
when first severed , the head is dropped astern and held there by a cable 
till the body is stripped . that done , if it belong to a small whale 
it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of . but , with a full 
grown leviathan this is impossible ; for the sperm whale ' s head embraces 
nearly one third of his entire bulk , and completely to suspend such a 
burden as that , even by the immense tackles of a whaler , this were as 
vain a thing as to attempt weighing a dutch barn in UNK ' scales . 
the pequod ' s whale being decapitated and the body stripped , the head was 
hoisted against the ship ' s side - about half way out of the sea , so that 
it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element . and there 
with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it , by reason of the 
enormous downward drag from the lower mast - head , and every yard - arm 
on that side projecting like a crane over the waves ; there , that 
blood - dripping head hung to the pequod ' s waist like the UNK 
UNK ' s from the girdle of UNK . 
when this last task was accomplished it was noon , and the seamen went 
below to their dinner . silence reigned over the before tumultuous but 
now deserted deck . an intense copper calm , like a universal yellow 
UNK , was more and more UNK its noiseless measureless leaves upon 
the sea . 
a short space elapsed , and up into this UNK came ahab alone 
from his cabin . taking a few turns on the quarter - deck , he paused to 
gaze over the side , then slowly getting into the main - chains he 
took stubb ' s long spade - still remaining there after the whale ' s 
UNK - and striking it into the lower part of the half - suspended 
mass , placed its other end UNK - wise under one arm , and so stood 
leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head . 
it was a black and hooded head ; and hanging there in the midst of so 
intense a calm , it seemed the sphynx ' s in the desert . " speak , thou vast 
and venerable head , " muttered ahab , " which , though UNK with a 
beard , yet here and there lookest UNK with mosses ; speak , mighty head , 
and tell us the secret thing that is in thee . of all divers , thou hast 
dived the deepest . that head upon which the upper sun now gleams , has 
moved amid this world ' s foundations . where unrecorded names and navies 
rust , and UNK hopes and anchors UNK ; where in her murderous hold this 
frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the drowned ; there , 
in that awful water - land , there was thy most familiar home . thou hast 
been where bell or diver never went ; hast slept by many a sailor ' s side , 
where sleepless mothers would give their lives to lay them down . thou 
saw ' st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship ; heart 
to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave ; true to each other , when 
heaven seemed false to them . thou saw ' st the murdered mate when tossed 
by pirates from the midnight deck ; for hours he fell into the deeper 
midnight of the insatiate maw ; and his murderers still sailed on 
unharmed - while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that 
would have borne a righteous UNK to outstretched , longing arms . o 
head ! thou hast seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of 
abraham , and not one UNK is thine ! " 
" sail ho ! " cried a triumphant voice from the main - mast - head . 
" aye ? well , now , that ' s cheering , " cried ahab , suddenly UNK 
himself , while whole thunder - clouds swept aside from his brow . 
" that lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better 
man . - where away ? " 
" three points on the starboard bow , sir , and bringing down her breeze to 
us ! 
" better and better , man . would now st . paul would come along that way , 
and to my UNK bring his breeze ! o nature , and o soul of man ! 
how far beyond all utterance are your linked UNK ! not the smallest 
UNK stirs or lives on matter , but has its cunning duplicate in mind . " 
chapter UNK . the jeroboam ' s story . 
hand in hand , ship and breeze blew on ; but the breeze came UNK than 
the ship , and soon the pequod began to rock . 
by and by , through the glass the stranger ' s boats and manned mast - heads 
proved her a whale - ship . but as she was so far to windward , and shooting 
by , apparently making a passage to some other ground , the pequod could 
not hope to reach her . so the signal was set to see what response would 
be made . 
here be it said , that like the vessels of military marines , the ships of 
the american whale fleet have each a private signal ; all which signals 
being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels 
attached , every captain is provided with it . thereby , the whale 
commanders are enabled to UNK each other upon the ocean , even at 
considerable distances and with no small UNK . 
the pequod ' s signal was at last responded to by the stranger ' s setting 
her own ; which proved the ship to be the jeroboam of nantucket . squaring 
her yards , she bore down , ranged UNK under the pequod ' s lee , and 
lowered a boat ; it soon drew nigh ; but , as the side - ladder was being 
rigged by starbuck ' s order to accommodate the visiting captain , the 
stranger in question waved his hand from his boat ' s stern in token 
of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary . it turned out that 
the jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board , and that mayhew , her 
captain , was fearful of UNK the pequod ' s company . for , though 
himself and boat ' s crew remained UNK , and though his ship was half 
a rifle - shot off , and an UNK sea and air rolling and flowing 
between ; yet UNK adhering to the timid UNK of the 
land , he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact with the 
pequod . 
but this did by no means prevent all communications . preserving an 
interval of some few yards between itself and the ship , the jeroboam ' s 
boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to the 
pequod , as she heavily forged through the sea ( for by this time it blew 
very fresh ) , with her main - topsail aback ; though , indeed , at times by 
the sudden onset of a large rolling wave , the boat would be pushed some 
way ahead ; but would be soon UNK brought to her proper UNK 
again . subject to this , and other the like interruptions now and then , a 
conversation was UNK between the two parties ; but at intervals not 
without still another UNK of a very different sort . 
pulling an oar in the jeroboam ' s boat , was a man of a singular 
appearance , even in that wild whaling life where individual UNK 
make up all UNK . he was a small , short , UNK man , sprinkled 
all over his face with UNK , and wearing redundant yellow hair . a 
long - UNK , UNK - cut coat of a faded UNK tinge enveloped 
him ; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on his wrists . a 
deep , settled , UNK delirium was in his eyes . 
so soon as this figure had been first descried , stubb had 
exclaimed - " that ' s he ! that ' s he ! - the long - UNK scaramouch the 
town - ho ' s company told us of ! " stubb here alluded to a strange story 
told of the jeroboam , and a certain man among her crew , some time 
previous when the pequod spoke the town - ho . according to this account 
and what was subsequently learned , it seemed that the scaramouch in 
question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the 
jeroboam . his story was this : 
he had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of neskyeuna 
shakers , where he had been a great prophet ; in their cracked , secret 
meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a 
trap - door , announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial , which he 
carried in his vest - pocket ; but , which , instead of containing gunpowder , 
was supposed to be charged with UNK . a strange , apostolic whim 
having seized him , he had left neskyeuna for nantucket , where , with 
that cunning peculiar to UNK , he assumed a steady , common - sense 
exterior , and offered himself as a green - hand candidate for the 
jeroboam ' s whaling voyage . they engaged him ; but straightway upon 
the ship ' s getting out of sight of land , his insanity broke out in a 
UNK . he announced himself as the archangel gabriel , and commanded 
the captain to jump overboard . he published his UNK , whereby 
he set himself forth as the UNK of the isles of the sea and 
UNK - general of all UNK . the UNK earnestness with which he 
declared these things ; - the dark , daring play of his sleepless , excited 
imagination , and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium , united 
to invest this gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant 
crew , with an atmosphere of UNK . moreover , they were afraid of 
him . as such a man , however , was not of much practical use in the ship , 
especially as he refused to work except when he pleased , the incredulous 
captain would fain have been rid of him ; but apprised that that 
individual ' s intention was to land him in the first convenient port , the 
archangel forthwith opened all his seals and vials - UNK the ship 
and all hands to unconditional perdition , in case this intention was 
carried out . so strongly did he work upon his disciples among the crew , 
that at last in a body they went to the captain and told him if gabriel 
was sent from the ship , not a man of them would remain . he was therefore 
forced to relinquish his plan . nor would they permit gabriel to be any 
way UNK , say or do what he would ; so that it came to pass that 
gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship . the consequence of all 
this was , that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and 
mates ; and since the epidemic had broken out , he carried a higher hand 
than ever ; declaring that the plague , as he called it , was at his sole 
command ; nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure . 
the sailors , mostly poor devils , cringed , and some of them UNK before 
him ; in obedience to his UNK , sometimes rendering him personal 
homage , as to a god . such things may seem incredible ; but , however 
wondrous , they are true . nor is the history of UNK half so striking 
in respect to the measureless self - deception of the UNK himself , as 
his measureless power of UNK and UNK so many others . but 
it is time to return to the pequod . 
" i fear not thy epidemic , man , " said ahab from the bulwarks , to captain 
mayhew , who stood in the boat ' s stern ; " come on board . " 
but now gabriel started to his feet . 
" think , think of the fevers , yellow and UNK ! beware of the horrible 
plague ! " 
" gabriel ! gabriel ! " cried captain mayhew ; " thou must either - " but 
that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead , and its seethings 
drowned all speech . 
" hast thou seen the white whale ? " demanded ahab , when the boat drifted 
back . 
" think , think of thy whale - boat , stoven and sunk ! beware of the horrible 
tail ! " 
" i tell thee again , gabriel , that - " but again the boat tore ahead as if 
dragged by fiends . nothing was said for some moments , while a succession 
of riotous waves rolled by , which by one of those occasional UNK 
of the seas were tumbling , not heaving it . meantime , the hoisted sperm 
whale ' s head UNK about very violently , and gabriel was seen eyeing 
it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel nature seemed to 
warrant . 
when this interlude was over , captain mayhew began a dark story 
concerning moby dick ; not , however , without frequent interruptions from 
gabriel , whenever his name was mentioned , and the crazy sea that seemed 
leagued with him . 
it seemed that the jeroboam had not long left home , when upon speaking 
a whale - ship , her people were reliably apprised of the existence of moby 
dick , and the havoc he had made . UNK sucking in this intelligence , 
gabriel solemnly warned the captain against UNK the white 
whale , in case the monster should be seen ; in his UNK insanity , 
pronouncing the white whale to be no less a being than the UNK god 
UNK ; the shakers receiving the bible . but when , some year or two 
afterwards , moby dick was fairly sighted from the mast - heads , macey , the 
chief mate , burned with UNK to encounter him ; and the captain himself 
being not UNK to let him have the opportunity , UNK all 
the archangel ' s UNK and UNK , macey succeeded in 
UNK five men to man his boat . with them he pushed off ; and , after 
much weary pulling , and many perilous , UNK UNK , he at last 
succeeded in getting one iron fast . meantime , gabriel , ascending to 
the main - royal mast - head , was tossing one arm in frantic gestures , and 
UNK forth UNK of speedy doom to the UNK UNK 
of his UNK . now , while macey , the mate , was standing up in his 
boat ' s bow , and with all the reckless energy of his tribe was UNK 
his wild exclamations upon the whale , and UNK to get a fair chance 
for his poised lance , lo ! a broad white shadow rose from the sea ; by its 
quick , fanning motion , temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies 
of the oarsmen . next instant , the luckless mate , so full of furious 
life , was smitten bodily into the air , and making a long UNK in his 
descent , fell into the sea at the distance of about fifty yards . not a 
chip of the boat was UNK , nor a hair of any oarsman ' s head ; but the 
mate for ever sank . 
it is well to UNK here , that of the fatal accidents in the 
sperm - whale fishery , this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any . 
sometimes , nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated ; 
oftener the boat ' s bow is knocked off , or the thigh - board , in which the 
headsman stands , is torn from its place and UNK the body . but 
strangest of all is the circumstance , that in more instances than one , 
when the body has been recovered , not a single mark of violence is 
discernible ; the man being stark dead . 
the whole calamity , with the falling form of macey , was plainly descried 
from the ship . raising a piercing UNK - " the vial ! the vial ! " gabriel 
called off the terror - stricken crew from the further hunting of the 
whale . this terrible event clothed the archangel with added influence ; 
because his credulous disciples believed that he had UNK 
fore - announced it , instead of only making a general prophecy , which any 
one might have done , and so have chanced to hit one of many marks in the 
wide margin allowed . he became a nameless terror to the ship . 
mayhew having concluded his narration , ahab put such questions to 
him , that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he 
intended to hunt the white whale , if opportunity should offer . to which 
ahab answered - " aye . " straightway , then , gabriel once more started 
to his feet , UNK upon the old man , and vehemently exclaimed , with 
downward pointed finger - " think , think of the UNK - dead , and down 
there ! - beware of the UNK ' s end ! " 
ahab UNK turned aside ; then said to mayhew , " captain , i have 
just UNK me of my letter - bag ; there is a letter for one of thy 
officers , if i mistake not . starbuck , look over the bag . " 
every whale - ship takes out a UNK number of letters for various ships , 
whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed , depends 
upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans . thus , 
most letters never reach their mark ; and many are only received after 
attaining an age of two or three years or more . 
soon starbuck returned with a letter in his hand . it was sorely tumbled , 
damp , and covered with a dull , spotted , green mould , in consequence 
of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin . of such a letter , death 
himself might well have been the post - boy . 
" can ' st not read it ? " cried ahab . " give it me , man . aye , aye , it ' s but 
a dim UNK ; - what ' s this ? " as he was studying it out , starbuck took a 
long cutting - spade pole , and with his knife slightly split the end , to 
insert the letter there , and in that way , hand it to the boat , without 
its coming any closer to the ship . 
meantime , ahab holding the letter , muttered , " mr . UNK - yes , mr . 
harry - ( a woman ' s UNK hand , - the man ' s wife , i ' ll UNK ) - aye - mr . 
harry macey , ship jeroboam ; - why it ' s macey , and he ' s dead ! " 
" poor fellow ! poor fellow ! and from his wife , " sighed mayhew ; " but let 
me have it . " 
" nay , keep it thyself , " cried gabriel to ahab ; " thou art soon going that 
way . " 
" curses UNK thee ! " yelled ahab . " captain mayhew , stand by now to 
receive it " ; and taking the fatal UNK from starbuck ' s hands , he 
caught it in the slit of the pole , and reached it over towards the boat . 
but as he did so , the oarsmen expectantly UNK from rowing ; the boat 
drifted a little towards the ship ' s stern ; so that , as if by magic , the 
letter suddenly ranged along with gabriel ' s eager hand . he UNK it 
in an instant , seized the boat - knife , and impaling the letter on it , 
sent it thus loaded back into the ship . it fell at ahab ' s feet . then 
gabriel shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars , and in 
that manner the UNK boat rapidly shot away from the pequod . 
as , after this interlude , the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket 
of the whale , many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild 
affair . 
chapter 72 . the monkey - rope . 
in the tumultuous business of cutting - in and attending to a whale , there 
is much running backwards and forwards among the crew . now hands are 
wanted here , and then again hands are wanted there . there is no UNK 
in any one place ; for at one and the same time everything has to be done 
everywhere . it is much the same with him who endeavors the description 
of the scene . we must now UNK our way a little . it was mentioned 
that upon first breaking ground in the whale ' s back , the blubber - hook 
was inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the 
mates . but how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook 
get fixed in that hole ? it was inserted there by my particular friend 
queequeg , whose duty it was , as harpooneer , to descend upon the 
monster ' s back for the special purpose referred to . but in very many 
cases , circumstances require that the harpooneer shall remain on the 
whale till the whole UNK or UNK operation is concluded . the 
whale , be it observed , lies almost entirely submerged , excepting the 
immediate parts operated upon . so down there , some ten feet below the 
level of the deck , the poor harpooneer UNK about , half on the 
whale and half in the water , as the vast mass UNK like a tread - UNK 
beneath him . on the occasion in question , queequeg figured in the 
highland UNK - a shirt and socks - in which to my eyes , at least , 
he appeared to uncommon advantage ; and no one had a better chance to 
observe him , as will presently be seen . 
being the savage ' s bowsman , that is , the person who pulled the bow - oar 
in his boat ( the second one from forward ) , it was my cheerful duty to 
attend upon him while taking that hard - UNK UNK upon the dead 
whale ' s back . you have seen italian organ - boys holding a dancing - ape by 
a long cord . just so , from the ship ' s steep side , did i hold queequeg 
down there in the sea , by what is technically called in the fishery 
a monkey - rope , attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his 
waist . 
it was a humorously perilous business for both of us . for , before we 
proceed further , it must be said that the monkey - rope was fast at 
both ends ; fast to queequeg ' s broad canvas belt , and fast to my narrow 
leather one . so that for better or for worse , we two , for the time , were 
wedded ; and should poor queequeg sink to rise no more , then both usage 
and honour demanded , that instead of cutting the cord , it should drag 
me down in his wake . so , then , an UNK siamese UNK united us . 
queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother ; nor could i any way get 
rid of the dangerous UNK which the hempen UNK UNK . 
so strongly and UNK did i conceive of my situation then , that 
while earnestly watching his motions , i seemed distinctly to perceive 
that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock company of 
two ; that my free will had received a mortal wound ; and that another ' s 
mistake or UNK might plunge innocent me into UNK disaster 
and death . therefore , i saw that here was a sort of UNK in 
providence ; for its even - handed UNK never could have so UNK an 
injustice . and yet still further pondering - while i jerked him now 
and then from between the whale and ship , which would threaten to UNK 
him - still further pondering , i say , i saw that this situation of mine 
was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes ; only , in most 
cases , he , one way or other , has this siamese connexion with a UNK 
of other mortals . if your UNK breaks , you snap ; if your apothecary by 
mistake UNK you poison in your UNK , you die . true , you may say 
that , by exceeding UNK , you may possibly escape these and the 
UNK other evil chances of life . but handle queequeg ' s 
monkey - rope UNK as i would , sometimes he jerked it so , that i came 
very near sliding overboard . nor could i possibly forget that , do what i 
would , i only had the management of one end of it . * 
* the monkey - rope is found in all whalers ; but it was only in the pequod 
that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together . this UNK 
upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than stubb , 
in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest possible 
UNK for the UNK and vigilance of his monkey - rope holder . 
i have hinted that i would often jerk poor queequeg from between the 
whale and the ship - where he would occasionally fall , from the incessant 
rolling and swaying of both . but this was not the only jamming jeopardy 
he was exposed to . UNK by the UNK made upon them during the 
night , the sharks now UNK and more UNK allured by the before pent 
blood which began to flow from the UNK - the UNK creatures UNK 
round it like bees in a UNK . 
and right in among those sharks was queequeg ; who often pushed them 
aside with his floundering feet . a thing altogether incredible were 
it not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale , the otherwise 
UNK UNK shark will seldom touch a man . 
nevertheless , it may well be believed that since they have such a 
UNK finger in the pie , it is deemed but wise to look sharp to them . 
accordingly , besides the monkey - rope , with which i now and then jerked 
the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed 
a peculiarly ferocious shark - he was provided with still another 
protection . suspended over the side in one of the stages , tashtego 
and daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen 
whale - spades , UNK they UNK as many sharks as they could 
reach . this procedure of theirs , to be sure , was very UNK and 
benevolent of them . they meant queequeg ' s best UNK , i admit ; but 
in their hasty UNK to befriend him , and from the circumstance that both 
he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood - UNK water , 
those UNK spades of theirs would come nearer UNK a leg 
than a tail . but poor queequeg , i suppose , straining and gasping there 
with that great iron hook - poor queequeg , i suppose , only prayed to his 
yojo , and gave up his life into the hands of his gods . 
well , well , my dear comrade and twin - brother , thought i , as i drew in 
and then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea - what matters 
it , after all ? are you not the precious image of each and all of us men 
in this whaling world ? that unsounded ocean you gasp in , is life ; those 
sharks , your foes ; those spades , your friends ; and what between sharks 
and spades you are in a sad pickle and peril , poor lad . 
but courage ! there is good cheer in store for you , queequeg . for now , as 
with blue lips and blood - shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs 
up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over 
the side ; the steward advances , and with a benevolent , UNK 
glance hands him - what ? some hot UNK ? no ! hands him , ye gods ! hands 
him a cup of tepid ginger and water ! 
" ginger ? do i smell ginger ? " UNK asked stubb , coming near . 
" yes , this must be ginger , " peering into the as yet UNK cup . then 
standing as if incredulous for a while , he calmly walked towards the 
astonished steward slowly saying , " ginger ? ginger ? and will you have 
the goodness to tell me , mr . dough - boy , where lies the virtue of ginger ? 
ginger ! is ginger the sort of fuel you use , dough - boy , to UNK a fire 
in this shivering cannibal ? ginger ! - what the devil is ginger ? 
sea - coal ? UNK ? - UNK UNK ? - UNK ? - gunpowder ? - what the 
devil is ginger , i say , that you offer this cup to our poor queequeg 
here . " 
" there is some UNK temperance society movement about this 
business , " he suddenly added , now approaching starbuck , who had just 
come from forward . " will you look at that UNK , sir ; smell of it , 
if you please . " then watching the mate ' s countenance , he added , " the 
steward , mr . starbuck , had the face to offer that UNK and UNK 
to queequeg , there , this instant off the whale . is the steward an 
apothecary , sir ? and may i ask whether this is the sort of UNK by 
which he blows back the life into a half - drowned man ? " 
" i UNK not , " said starbuck , " it is poor stuff enough . " 
" aye , aye , steward , " cried stubb , " we ' ll teach you to UNK a 
harpooneer ; none of your apothecary ' s medicine here ; you want to poison 
us , do ye ? you have got out UNK on our lives and want to murder 
us all , and pocket the proceeds , do ye ? " 
" it was not me , " cried dough - boy , " it was aunt charity that brought the 
ginger on board ; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits , but 
only this ginger - jub - so she called it . " 
" ginger - jub ! you UNK rascal ! take that ! and run along with ye 
to the lockers , and get something better . i hope i do no wrong , mr . 
starbuck . it is the captain ' s orders - grog for the harpooneer on a 
whale . " 
" enough , " replied starbuck , " only don ' t hit him again , but - " 
" oh , i never UNK when i hit , except when i hit a whale or something of 
that sort ; and this fellow ' s a UNK . what were you about saying , sir ? " 
" only this : go down with him , and get what thou wantest thyself . " 
when stubb reappeared , he came with a dark flask in one hand , and a sort 
of tea - UNK in the other . the first contained strong spirits , and was 
handed to queequeg ; the second was aunt charity ' s gift , and that was 
freely given to the waves . 
chapter UNK . stubb and flask kill a right whale ; and then have a talk 
over him . 
it must be borne in mind that all this time we have a sperm whale ' s 
prodigious head hanging to the pequod ' s side . but we must let it 
continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it . 
for the present other matters press , and the best we can do now for the 
head , is to pray heaven the tackles may hold . 
now , during the past night and forenoon , the pequod had gradually 
drifted into a sea , which , by its occasional UNK of yellow brit , 
gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of right whales , a species of the 
leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking 
anywhere near . and though all hands commonly UNK the capture of 
those inferior creatures ; and though the pequod was not commissioned to 
cruise for them at all , and though she had passed numbers of them near 
the crozetts without lowering a boat ; yet now that a sperm whale 
had been brought alongside and beheaded , to the surprise of all , the 
announcement was made that a right whale should be captured that day , if 
opportunity offered . 
nor was this long wanting . tall spouts were seen to leeward ; and two 
boats , stubb ' s and flask ' s , were detached in pursuit . pulling further 
and further away , they at last became almost invisible to the men at 
the mast - head . but suddenly in the distance , they saw a great heap of 
tumultuous white water , and soon after news came from aloft that one or 
both the boats must be fast . an interval passed and the boats were in 
plain sight , in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the 
towing whale . so close did the monster come to the hull , that at 
first it seemed as if he meant it malice ; but suddenly going down in a 
maelstrom , within three rods of the planks , he wholly disappeared from 
view , as if diving under the keel . " cut , cut ! " was the cry from the 
ship to the boats , which , for one instant , seemed on the point of being 
brought with a deadly dash against the vessel ' s side . but having plenty 
of line yet in the tubs , and the whale not sounding very rapidly , they 
paid out abundance of rope , and at the same time pulled with all their 
might so as to get ahead of the ship . for a few minutes the struggle was 
intensely critical ; for while they still slacked out the UNK line 
in one direction , and still UNK their oars in another , the UNK 
strain threatened to take them under . but it was only a few feet advance 
they sought to gain . and they stuck to it till they did gain it ; when 
instantly , a swift UNK was felt running like lightning along the 
keel , as the strained line , scraping beneath the ship , suddenly rose 
to view under her bows , snapping and UNK ; and so flinging off its 
UNK , that the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water , 
while the whale beyond also rose to sight , and once more the boats were 
free to fly . but the UNK whale abated his speed , and blindly altering 
his course , went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after 
him , so that they UNK a complete UNK . 
meantime , they hauled more and more upon their lines , till close 
UNK him on both sides , stubb answered flask with lance for 
lance ; and thus round and round the pequod the battle went , while the 
UNK of sharks that had before UNK round the sperm whale ' s body , 
rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled , UNK drinking at every 
new gash , as the eager UNK did at the new bursting fountains that 
poured from the smitten rock . 
at last his spout grew thick , and with a frightful roll and UNK , he 
turned upon his back a corpse . 
while the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes , 
and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing , some 
conversation ensued between them . 
" i wonder what the old man wants with this UNK of foul lard , " said 
stubb , not without some UNK at the thought of having to do with so 
ignoble a leviathan . 
" wants with it ? " said flask , coiling some spare line in the boat ' s bow , 
" did you never hear that the ship which but once has a sperm whale ' s 
head hoisted on her starboard side , and at the same time a right whale ' s 
on the larboard ; did you never hear , stubb , that that ship can never 
afterwards UNK ? " 
" why not ? 
" i don ' t know , but i heard that UNK ghost of a fedallah saying so , 
and he seems to know all about ships ' charms . but i sometimes think 
he ' ll charm the ship to no good at last . i don ' t half like that chap , 
stubb . did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved into 
a snake ' s head , stubb ? " 
" sink him ! i never look at him at all ; but if ever i get a chance of a 
dark night , and he standing hard by the bulwarks , and no one by ; look 
down there , flask " - pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of 
both hands - " aye , will i ! flask , i take that fedallah to be the devil in 
UNK . do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been 
stowed away on board ship ? he ' s the devil , i say . the reason why you 
don ' t see his tail , is because he UNK it up out of sight ; he carries 
it coiled away in his pocket , i guess . blast him ! now that i think of 
it , he ' s always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots . " 
" he sleeps in his boots , don ' t he ? he hasn ' t got any hammock ; but i ' ve 
seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging . " 
" no doubt , and it ' s because of his cursed tail ; he coils it down , do ye 
see , in the eye of the rigging . " 
" what ' s the old man have so much to do with him for ? " 
" striking up a UNK or a UNK , i suppose . " 
" UNK ? - about what ? " 
" why , do ye see , the old man is hard bent after that white whale , and 
the devil there is trying to come round him , and get him to UNK away 
his silver watch , or his soul , or something of that sort , and then he ' ll 
surrender moby dick . " 
" pooh ! stubb , you are skylarking ; how can fedallah do that ? " 
" i don ' t know , flask , but the devil is a curious chap , and a wicked 
one , i tell ye . why , they say as how he went a sauntering into the 
old flag - ship once , UNK his tail about devilish easy and 
gentlemanlike , and inquiring if the old governor was at home . well , he 
was at home , and asked the devil what he wanted . the devil , UNK 
his hoofs , up and says , ' i want john . ' ' what for ? ' says the old 
governor . ' what business is that of yours , ' says the devil , getting 
mad , - ' i want to use him . ' ' take him , ' says the governor - and by the 
lord , flask , if the devil didn ' t give john the asiatic cholera before 
he got through with him , i ' ll eat this whale in one mouthful . but look 
sharp - ain ' t you all ready there ? well , then , pull ahead , and let ' s get 
the whale alongside . " 
" i think i remember some such story as you were telling , " said flask , 
when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden 
towards the ship , " but i can ' t remember where . " 
" three spaniards ? adventures of those three bloody - minded UNK ? did 
ye read it there , flask ? i guess ye did ? " 
" no : never saw such a book ; heard of it , though . but now , tell me , 
stubb , do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now , was 
the same you say is now on board the pequod ? " 
" am i the same man that helped kill this whale ? doesn ' t the devil live 
for ever ; who ever heard that the devil was dead ? did you ever see 
any parson a wearing mourning for the devil ? and if the devil has a 
UNK - key to get into the admiral ' s cabin , don ' t you suppose he can 
crawl into a porthole ? tell me that , mr . flask ? " 
" how old do you suppose fedallah is , stubb ? " 
" do you see that mainmast there ? " pointing to the ship ; " well , that ' s 
the figure one ; now take all the hoops in the pequod ' s hold , and string 
along in a row with that mast , for oughts , do you see ; well , that 
wouldn ' t begin to be fedallah ' s age . nor all the coopers in creation 
couldn ' t show hoops enough to make oughts enough . " 
" but see here , stubb , i thought you a little boasted just now , that you 
meant to give fedallah a sea - toss , if you got a good chance . now , if 
he ' s so old as all those hoops of yours come to , and if he is going 
to live for ever , what good will it do to pitch him overboard - tell me 
that ? 
" give him a good ducking , anyhow . " 
" but he ' d crawl back . " 
" duck him again ; and keep ducking him . " 
" suppose he should take it into his head to duck you , though - yes , and 
drown you - what then ? " 
" i should like to see him try it ; i ' d give him such a pair of black eyes 
that he wouldn ' t dare to show his face in the admiral ' s cabin again for 
a long while , let alone down in the orlop there , where he lives , and 
hereabouts on the upper decks where he UNK so much . damn the devil , 
flask ; so you suppose i ' m afraid of the devil ? who ' s afraid of 
him , except the old governor who UNK ' t catch him and put him in 
double - UNK , as he deserves , but UNK him go about kidnapping 
people ; aye , and signed a UNK with him , that all the people the devil 
UNK , he ' d roast for him ? there ' s a governor ! " 
" do you suppose fedallah wants to UNK captain ahab ? " 
" do i suppose it ? you ' ll know it before long , flask . but i am going now 
to keep a sharp look - out on him ; and if i see anything very suspicious 
going on , i ' ll just take him by the UNK of his neck , and say - look 
here , UNK , you don ' t do it ; and if he makes any fuss , by the lord 
i ' ll make a UNK into his pocket for his tail , take it to the capstan , 
and give him such a wrenching and heaving , that his tail will come short 
off at the stump - do you see ; and then , i rather guess when he finds 
himself UNK in that queer fashion , he ' ll UNK off without the poor 
satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs . " 
" and what will you do with the tail , stubb ? " 
" do with it ? sell it for an ox whip when we get home ; - what else ? " 
" now , do you mean what you say , and have been saying all along , stubb ? " 
" mean or not mean , here we are at the ship . " 
the boats were here hailed , to tow the whale on the larboard side , where 
fluke chains and other UNK were already prepared for securing 
him . 
" didn ' t i tell you so ? " said flask ; " yes , you ' ll soon see this right 
whale ' s head hoisted up opposite that UNK ' s . " 
in good time , flask ' s saying proved true . as before , the pequod steeply 
leaned over towards the sperm whale ' s head , now , by the UNK of 
both heads , she UNK her even keel ; though sorely strained , you may 
well believe . so , when on one side you hoist in UNK ' s head , you go 
over that way ; but now , on the other side , hoist in UNK ' s and you come 
back again ; but in very poor plight . thus , some minds for ever keep 
UNK boat . oh , ye foolish ! throw all these thunder - heads overboard , 
and then you will float light and right . 
in disposing of the body of a right whale , when brought alongside the 
ship , the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the 
case of a sperm whale ; only , in the latter instance , the head is cut off 
whole , but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and 
hoisted on deck , with all the well known black bone attached to what is 
called the crown - piece . but nothing like this , in the present case , 
had been done . the UNK of both whales had dropped astern ; and 
the head - laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair of 
UNK UNK . 
meantime , fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale ' s head , and ever 
and anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own 
hand . and ahab chanced so to stand , that the parsee occupied his shadow ; 
while , if the parsee ' s shadow was there at all it seemed only to 
blend with , and UNK ahab ' s . as the crew toiled on , UNK 
speculations were UNK among them , concerning all these passing 
things . 
chapter UNK . the sperm whale ' s head - UNK view . 
here , now , are two great whales , laying their heads together ; let us 
join them , and lay together our own . 
of the grand order of folio leviathans , the sperm whale and the right 
whale are by far the most noteworthy . they are the only whales regularly 
hunted by man . to the nantucketer , they present the two UNK of all 
the known varieties of the whale . as the external difference between 
them is mainly observable in their heads ; and as a head of each is this 
moment hanging from the pequod ' s side ; and as we may freely go from one 
to the other , by merely stepping across the deck : - where , i should like 
to know , will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology 
than here ? 
in the first place , you are struck by the general contrast between these 
heads . both are massive enough in all conscience ; but there is a certain 
mathematical UNK in the sperm whale ' s which the right whale ' s sadly 
UNK . there is more character in the sperm whale ' s head . as you behold 
it , you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him , in point 
of pervading dignity . in the present instance , too , this dignity is 
heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit , 
giving token of advanced age and large experience . in short , he is what 
the fishermen technically call a " grey - headed whale . " 
let us now note what is least UNK in these heads - namely , the two 
most important organs , the eye and the ear . far back on the side of 
the head , and low down , near the angle of either whale ' s jaw , if you 
narrowly search , you will at last see a UNK eye , which you would 
fancy to be a young colt ' s eye ; so out of all proportion is it to the 
magnitude of the head . 
now , from this peculiar UNK position of the whale ' s eyes , it is 
plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead , no more 
than he can one exactly astern . in a word , the position of the whale ' s 
eyes UNK to that of a man ' s ears ; and you may fancy , for 
yourself , how it would fare with you , did you sideways survey objects 
through your ears . you would find that you could only command some 
thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side - line of sight ; 
and about thirty more behind it . if your bitterest foe were walking 
straight towards you , with UNK uplifted in broad day , you would not 
be able to see him , any more than if he were stealing upon you from 
behind . in a word , you would have two backs , so to speak ; but , at the 
same time , also , two fronts ( side fronts ) : for what is it that makes the 
front of a man - what , indeed , but his eyes ? 
moreover , while in most other animals that i can now think of , the eyes 
are so planted as UNK to blend their visual power , so as to 
produce one picture and not two to the brain ; the peculiar position of 
the whale ' s eyes , effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of 
solid head , which towers between them like a great mountain separating 
two lakes in valleys ; this , of course , must wholly separate the 
impressions which each independent organ imparts . the whale , therefore , 
must see one distinct picture on this side , and another distinct 
picture on that side ; while all between must be profound darkness and 
UNK to him . man may , in effect , be said to look out on the world 
from a sentry - box with two joined sashes for his window . but with the 
whale , these two sashes are separately inserted , making two distinct 
windows , but sadly UNK the view . this peculiarity of the whale ' s 
eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery ; and to be 
remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes . 
a curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this 
visual matter as touching the leviathan . but i must be content with a 
hint . so long as a man ' s eyes are open in the light , the act of seeing 
is involuntary ; that is , he cannot then help mechanically seeing 
whatever objects are before him . nevertheless , any one ' s experience 
will teach him , that though he can take in an UNK sweep of 
things at one glance , it is quite impossible for him , attentively , 
and completely , to examine any two things - however large or however 
small - at one and the same instant of time ; never mind if they lie side 
by side and touch each other . but if you now come to separate these two 
objects , and surround each by a circle of profound darkness ; then , in 
order to see one of them , in such a manner as to bring your mind to 
bear on it , the other will be utterly UNK from your contemporary 
consciousness . how is it , then , with the whale ? true , both his eyes , 
in themselves , must simultaneously act ; but is his brain so much more 
comprehensive , UNK , and subtle than man ' s , that he can at the same 
moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects , one on one 
side of him , and the other in an exactly opposite direction ? if he 
can , then is it as marvellous a thing in him , as if a man were able 
simultaneously to go through the UNK of two distinct UNK 
in UNK . nor , strictly UNK , is there any UNK in this 
comparison . 
it may be but an idle whim , but it has always seemed to me , that the 
extraordinary UNK of movement displayed by some whales when 
beset by three or four boats ; the timidity and UNK to queer 
UNK , so common to such whales ; i think that all this indirectly 
proceeds from the UNK perplexity of volition , in which their 
divided and UNK opposite powers of vision must involve them . 
but the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye . if you are an 
entire stranger to their race , you might hunt over these two heads 
for hours , and never discover that organ . the ear has no external UNK 
whatever ; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill , so 
wondrously minute is it . it is lodged a little behind the eye . with 
respect to their ears , this important difference is to be observed 
between the sperm whale and the right . while the ear of the former has 
an external opening , that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered 
over with a membrane , so as to be quite UNK from without . 
is it not curious , that so vast a being as the whale should see the 
world through so small an eye , and hear the thunder through an ear which 
is smaller than a UNK ' s ? but if his eyes were broad as the UNK of 
UNK ' s great telescope ; and his ears capacious as the UNK of 
UNK ; would that make him any longer of sight , or sharper of 
hearing ? not at all . - why then do you try to " enlarge " your mind ? 
UNK it . 
let us now with whatever UNK and steam - UNK we have at hand , cant 
over the sperm whale ' s head , that it may lie bottom up ; then , ascending 
by a ladder to the summit , have a peep down the mouth ; and were it not 
that the body is now completely separated from it , with a lantern we 
might descend into the great UNK UNK cave of his stomach . but 
let us hold on here by this tooth , and look about us where we are . what 
a really beautiful and UNK - looking mouth ! from floor to ceiling , 
UNK , or rather papered with a glistening white membrane , glossy as 
bridal UNK . 
but come out now , and look at this portentous lower jaw , which seems 
like the long narrow lid of an immense UNK - box , with the hinge at one 
end , instead of one side . if you pry it up , so as to get it overhead , 
and expose its rows of teeth , it seems a terrific UNK ; and such , 
alas ! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery , upon whom these 
spikes fall with impaling force . but far more terrible is it to behold , 
when fathoms down in the sea , you see some sulky whale , floating there 
suspended , with his prodigious jaw , some fifteen feet long , hanging 
straight down at right - angles with his body , for all the world like a 
ship ' s jib - boom . this whale is not dead ; he is only UNK ; out of 
sorts , perhaps ; UNK ; and so UNK , that the hinges of his 
jaw have relaxed , leaving him there in that UNK sort of plight , a 
UNK to all his tribe , who must , no doubt , imprecate lock - jaws upon 
him . 
in most cases this lower jaw - being easily unhinged by a practised 
artist - is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of UNK 
the ivory teeth , and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone 
with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles , 
including canes , umbrella - stocks , and handles to riding - whips . 
with a long , weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board , as if it were an 
anchor ; and when the proper time comes - some few days after the other 
work - queequeg , daggoo , and tashtego , being all accomplished UNK , 
are set to drawing teeth . with a keen cutting - spade , queequeg lances 
the UNK ; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts , and a tackle being 
rigged from aloft , they drag out these teeth , as michigan oxen drag 
UNK of old UNK out of wild wood lands . there are generally forty - two 
teeth in all ; in old whales , much worn down , but UNK ; nor filled 
after our artificial fashion . the jaw is afterwards UNK into slabs , and 
piled away like joists for building houses . 
chapter UNK . the right whale ' s head - UNK view . 
crossing the deck , let us now have a good long look at the right whale ' s 
head . 
as in general shape the noble sperm whale ' s head may be compared to a 
roman war - UNK ( especially in front , where it is so broadly rounded ) ; 
so , at a broad view , the right whale ' s head bears a rather inelegant 
resemblance to a gigantic galliot - UNK shoe . two hundred years ago an 
old dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a UNK ' s last . and 
in this same last or shoe , that old woman of the nursery tale , with 
the swarming UNK , might very comfortably be lodged , she and all her 
progeny . 
but as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different 
aspects , according to your point of view . if you stand on its summit and 
look at these two f - shaped UNK , you would take the whole head 
for an enormous UNK - UNK , and these UNK , the UNK in its 
sounding - board . then , again , if you UNK your eye upon this strange , 
UNK , UNK - like UNK on the top of the mass - this green , 
barnacled thing , which the UNK call the " crown , " and the 
southern fishers the " UNK " of the right whale ; UNK your eyes 
solely on this , you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak , 
with a bird ' s nest in its crotch . at any rate , when you watch those live 
crabs that UNK here on this UNK , such an idea will be almost 
sure to occur to you ; unless , indeed , your fancy has been fixed by the 
technical term " crown " also bestowed upon it ; in which case you will 
take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a 
UNK king of the sea , whose green crown has been put together for 
him in this marvellous manner . but if this whale be a king , he is a very 
sulky looking fellow to grace a UNK . look at that hanging lower lip ! 
what a huge sulk and pout is there ! a sulk and pout , by carpenter ' s 
measurement , about twenty feet long and five feet deep ; a sulk and pout 
that will yield you some UNK gallons of oil and more . 
a great pity , now , that this UNK whale should be UNK - UNK . 
the fissure is about a foot across . probably the mother during an 
important interval was sailing down the peruvian coast , when earthquakes 
caused the beach to UNK . over this lip , as over a slippery threshold , 
we now slide into the mouth . upon my word were i at mackinaw , i should 
take this to be the inside of an indian wigwam . good lord ! is this the 
road that jonah went ? the roof is about twelve feet high , and runs to a 
pretty sharp angle , as if there were a regular ridge - pole there ; while 
these ribbed , arched , hairy sides , present us with those wondrous , half 
vertical , UNK - shaped UNK of whalebone , say three hundred on a 
side , which UNK from the upper part of the head or crown 
bone , form those venetian blinds which have elsewhere been UNK 
mentioned . the edges of these bones are UNK with hairy fibres , 
through which the right whale UNK the water , and in whose 
intricacies he UNK the small fish , when UNK he goes through 
the seas of brit in feeding time . in the central blinds of bone , as they 
stand in their natural order , there are certain curious marks , curves , 
hollows , and UNK , whereby some whalemen calculate the creature ' s age , 
as the age of an oak by its circular rings . though the certainty of this 
UNK is far from UNK , yet it has the savor of UNK 
probability . at any rate , if we yield to it , we must grant a far greater 
age to the right whale than at first glance will seem reasonable . 
in old times , there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies 
concerning these blinds . one voyager in UNK calls them the wondrous 
" whiskers " inside of the whale ' s mouth ; * another , " hogs ' bristles " ; a 
third old gentleman in hackluyt uses the following elegant language : 
" there are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his 
upper UNK , which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth . " 
* this reminds us that the right whale really has a sort of whisker , or 
rather a UNK , consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the 
upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw . sometimes these 
UNK impart a rather UNK expression to his otherwise solemn 
countenance . 
as every one knows , these same " hogs ' bristles , " " fins , " " whiskers , " 
" blinds , " or whatever you please , furnish to the ladies their busks and 
other UNK contrivances . but in this particular , the demand has 
long been on the decline . it was in queen anne ' s time that the bone was 
in its glory , the UNK being then all the fashion . and as those 
ancient dames moved about gaily , though in the jaws of the whale , as 
you may say ; even so , in a shower , with the like UNK , do we 
nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection ; the umbrella being a 
tent spread over the same bone . 
but now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment , and , standing 
in the right whale ' s mouth , look around you afresh . seeing all these 
colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about , would you not think 
you were inside of the great UNK organ , and gazing upon its 
thousand pipes ? for a carpet to the organ we have a UNK of the UNK 
UNK - the tongue , which is glued , as it were , to the floor of the 
mouth . it is very fat and tender , and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting 
it on deck . this particular tongue now before us ; at a passing glance i 
should say it was a six - UNK ; that is , it will yield you about that 
amount of oil . 
ere this , you must have plainly seen the truth of what i started 
with - that the sperm whale and the right whale have almost entirely 
different heads . to sum up , then : in the right whale ' s there is no great 
well of sperm ; no ivory teeth at all ; no long , slender UNK of a 
lower jaw , like the sperm whale ' s . nor in the sperm whale are there any 
of those blinds of bone ; no huge lower lip ; and scarcely anything of a 
tongue . again , the right whale has two external spout - holes , the sperm 
whale only one . 
look your last , now , on these venerable hooded heads , while they yet lie 
together ; for one will soon sink , unrecorded , in the sea ; the other will 
not be very long in following . 
can you catch the expression of the sperm whale ' s there ? it is the same 
he died with , only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem 
now faded away . i think his broad brow to be full of a prairie - like 
UNK , born of a UNK indifference as to death . but mark the 
other head ' s expression . see that amazing lower lip , pressed by accident 
against the vessel ' s side , so as firmly to embrace the jaw . does not 
this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in 
facing death ? this right whale i take to have been a UNK ; the sperm 
whale , a UNK , who might have taken up UNK in his latter years . 
chapter UNK . the battering - ram . 
ere quitting , for the UNK , the sperm whale ' s head , i would have 
you , as a sensible UNK , simply - particularly remark its front 
aspect , in all its UNK collectedness . i would have you UNK 
it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some UNK , 
intelligent estimate of whatever battering - ram power may be lodged 
there . here is a vital point ; for you must either UNK settle 
this matter with yourself , or for ever remain an infidel as to one of 
the most appalling , but not the less true events , perhaps anywhere to be 
found in all recorded history . 
you observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the sperm whale , 
the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the 
water ; you observe that the lower part of that front UNK considerably 
backwards , so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which 
receives the boom - like lower jaw ; you observe that the mouth is entirely 
under the head , much in the same way , indeed , as though your own mouth 
were entirely under your chin . moreover you observe that the whale has 
no external nose ; and that what nose he has - his spout hole - is on the 
top of his head ; you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides 
of his head , nearly one third of his entire length from the front . 
wherefore , you must now have perceived that the front of the sperm 
whale ' s head is a dead , blind wall , without a single organ or tender 
UNK of any sort whatsoever . furthermore , you are now to consider 
that only in the extreme , lower , backward sloping part of the front of 
the head , is there the slightest UNK of bone ; and not till you 
get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial 
development . so that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad . 
finally , though , as will soon be revealed , its contents partly UNK 
the most delicate oil ; yet , you are now to be apprised of the nature of 
the substance which so UNK invests all that apparent effeminacy . 
in some previous place i have described to you how the blubber wraps the 
body of the whale , as the UNK wraps an orange . just so with the head ; 
but with this difference : about the head this envelope , though not so 
thick , is of a boneless UNK , UNK by any man who has not 
handled it . the severest pointed harpoon , the UNK lance darted by 
the strongest human arm , impotently UNK from it . it is as though 
the forehead of the sperm whale were paved with horses ' hoofs . i do not 
think that any sensation lurks in it . 
bethink yourself also of another thing . when two large , loaded UNK 
chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks , what do the 
sailors do ? they do not suspend between them , at the point of coming 
contact , any merely hard substance , like iron or wood . no , they hold 
there a large , round wad of tow and cork , enveloped in the thickest 
and UNK of ox - hide . that UNK and uninjured takes the UNK which 
would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow - bars . by 
itself this sufficiently UNK the obvious fact i drive at . but 
supplementary to this , it has hypothetically occurred to me , that 
as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming UNK in them , 
capable , at will , of distension or contraction ; and as the sperm whale , 
as far as i know , has no such provision in him ; considering , too , 
the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head 
altogether beneath the surface , and anon swims with it high elevated out 
of the water ; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope ; 
considering the UNK interior of his head ; it has hypothetically 
occurred to me , i say , that those mystical lung - UNK UNK there 
may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with 
the outer air , so as to be UNK to atmospheric distension and 
contraction . if this be so , fancy the UNK of that might , to 
which the most UNK and UNK of all elements contributes . 
now , mark . unerringly UNK this dead , impregnable , UNK 
wall , and this most buoyant thing within ; there swims behind it all a 
mass of tremendous life , only to be adequately estimated as piled wood 
is - by the cord ; and all UNK to one volition , as the smallest 
UNK . so that when i shall hereafter detail to you all the 
UNK and UNK of potency everywhere lurking in this 
expansive monster ; when i shall show you some of his more inconsiderable 
UNK UNK ; i UNK you will have UNK all ignorant 
UNK , and be ready to UNK by this ; that though the sperm whale 
stove a passage through the UNK of UNK , and mixed the atlantic 
with the pacific , you would not UNK one hair of your eye - brow . for 
unless you own the whale , you are but a UNK and UNK 
in truth . but clear truth is a thing for UNK giants only to 
encounter ; how small the chances for the UNK then ? what befell 
the UNK youth lifting the dread UNK ' s veil at UNK ? 
chapter UNK . the great heidelburgh tun . 
now comes the baling of the case . but to comprehend it aright , you must 
know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated 
upon . 
regarding the sperm whale ' s head as a solid UNK , you may , on an 
inclined plane , sideways divide it into two UNK , * whereof the lower 
is the bony structure , forming the UNK and jaws , and the upper an 
unctuous mass wholly free from bones ; its broad forward end forming the 
expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale . at the middle of the 
forehead horizontally UNK this upper quoin , and then you have two 
almost equal parts , which before were naturally divided by an internal 
wall of a thick tendinous substance . 
* quoin is not a UNK term . it belongs to the pure nautical 
UNK . i know not that it has been defined before . a quoin is a 
solid which differs from a UNK in having its sharp end formed by the 
steep UNK of one side , instead of the mutual tapering of both 
sides . 
the lower UNK part , called the junk , is one immense UNK 
of oil , formed by the crossing and UNK , into ten thousand 
infiltrated cells , of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole 
extent . the upper part , known as the case , may be regarded as the great 
heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale . and as that famous great tierce is 
UNK carved in front , so the whale ' s vast plaited forehead forms 
UNK strange devices for the UNK UNK of his 
wondrous tun . moreover , as that of heidelburgh was always replenished 
with the most excellent of the UNK of the UNK valleys , so the tun 
of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily UNK ; 
namely , the highly - UNK spermaceti , in its absolutely pure , UNK , 
and UNK state . nor is this precious substance found UNK 
in any other part of the creature . though in life it remains perfectly 
fluid , yet , upon exposure to the air , after death , it soon begins to 
UNK ; sending forth beautiful UNK shoots , as when the 
first thin delicate ice is just forming in water . a large whale ' s 
case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm , though from 
unavoidable circumstances , considerable of it is spilled , leaks , and 
UNK away , or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish business 
of securing what you can . 
i know not with what fine and costly material the heidelburgh tun 
was UNK within , but in superlative richness that UNK could not 
possibly have compared with the silken pearl - coloured membrane , like the 
UNK of a fine UNK , forming the inner surface of the sperm whale ' s 
case . 
it will have been seen that the heidelburgh tun of the sperm whale 
embraces the entire length of the entire top of the head ; and since - as 
has been elsewhere set forth - the head embraces one third of the whole 
length of the creature , then setting that length down at eighty feet for 
a good sized whale , you have more than twenty - six feet for the depth 
of the tun , when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship ' s 
side . 
as in UNK the whale , the UNK ' s instrument is brought close 
to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti 
UNK ; he has , therefore , to be uncommonly heedful , lest a careless , 
UNK stroke should invade the UNK and UNK let out its 
invaluable contents . it is this decapitated end of the head , also , which 
is at last elevated out of the water , and retained in that position by 
the enormous cutting tackles , whose hempen combinations , on one side , 
make quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter . 
thus much being said , attend now , i pray you , to that marvellous and - in 
this particular instance - almost fatal operation whereby the sperm 
whale ' s great heidelburgh tun is tapped . 
chapter UNK . cistern and buckets . 
nimble as a UNK , tashtego mounts aloft ; and without altering his erect 
posture , runs straight out upon the overhanging UNK - arm , to the 
part where it exactly projects over the hoisted tun . he has carried 
with him a light tackle called a whip , consisting of only two parts , 
UNK through a single - UNK block . securing this block , so that 
it hangs down from the yard - arm , he swings one end of the rope , till it 
is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck . then , hand - over - hand , down 
the other part , the indian drops through the air , till UNK he 
lands on the summit of the head . there - still high elevated above the 
rest of the company , to whom he UNK cries - he seems some turkish 
UNK calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower . a 
short - handled sharp spade being sent up to him , he diligently UNK 
for the proper place to begin breaking into the tun . in this business 
he proceeds very UNK , like a treasure - hunter in some old house , 
sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in . by the time 
this cautious search is over , a stout iron - bound bucket , precisely like 
a well - bucket , has been attached to one end of the whip ; while the other 
end , being stretched across the deck , is there held by two or three 
alert hands . these last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the indian , 
to whom another person has reached up a very long pole . inserting this 
pole into the bucket , tashtego downward UNK the bucket into the tun , 
till it entirely disappears ; then giving the word to the seamen at the 
whip , up comes the bucket again , all bubbling like a dairy - maid ' s UNK 
of new milk . carefully lowered from its height , the full - freighted 
vessel is caught by an appointed hand , and quickly emptied into a large 
tub . then UNK aloft , it again goes through the same round until 
the deep cistern will yield no more . towards the end , tashtego has to 
ram his long pole harder and harder , and deeper and deeper into the tun , 
until some twenty feet of the pole have gone down . 
now , the people of the pequod had been baling some time in this way ; 
several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm ; when all at once a 
queer accident happened . whether it was that tashtego , that wild indian , 
was so UNK and reckless as to let go for a moment his one - handed 
hold on the great UNK tackles suspending the head ; or whether the 
place where he stood was so treacherous and UNK ; or whether the evil 
one himself would have it to fall out so , without stating his particular 
reasons ; how it was exactly , there is no telling now ; but , on a sudden , 
as the UNK or ninetieth bucket came UNK up - my god ! poor 
tashtego - like the twin reciprocating bucket in a veritable well , 
dropped head - foremost down into this great tun of heidelburgh , and with 
a horrible oily gurgling , went clean out of sight ! 
" man overboard ! " cried daggoo , who amid the general consternation first 
came to his UNK . " swing the bucket this way ! " and putting one foot 
into it , so as the better to secure his slippery hand - hold on the whip 
itself , the UNK ran him high up to the top of the head , almost 
before tashtego could have reached its interior bottom . meantime , 
there was a terrible tumult . looking over the side , they saw the before 
lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea , 
as if that moment seized with some momentous idea ; whereas it was only 
the poor indian unconsciously revealing by those UNK the perilous 
depth to which he had sunk . 
at this instant , while daggoo , on the summit of the head , was clearing 
the whip - which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles - a 
sharp cracking noise was heard ; and to the unspeakable horror of all , 
one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out , and with 
a vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung , till the UNK ship 
reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg . the one remaining hook , 
upon which the entire strain now UNK , seemed every instant to be 
on the point of giving way ; an event still more UNK from the violent 
motions of the head . 
" come down , come down ! " yelled the seamen to daggoo , but with one hand 
holding on to the heavy tackles , so that if the head should drop , he 
would still remain suspended ; the negro having cleared the foul line , 
rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well , meaning that the 
buried harpooneer should grasp it , and so be hoisted out . 
" in heaven ' s name , man , " cried stubb , " are you UNK home a UNK 
there ? - avast ! how will that help him ; jamming that iron - bound bucket on 
top of his head ? avast , will ye ! " 
" stand clear of the tackle ! " cried a voice like the bursting of a 
UNK . 
almost in the same instant , with a thunder - boom , the enormous mass 
dropped into the sea , like niagara ' s table - rock into the whirlpool ; the 
suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it , to far down her glittering 
copper ; and all caught their breath , as half swinging - now over the 
sailors ' heads , and now over the water - daggoo , through a thick mist of 
spray , was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles , while poor , 
buried - alive tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea ! 
but hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away , when a naked figure 
with a boarding - sword in his hand , was for one swift moment seen 
hovering over the bulwarks . the next , a loud UNK announced that my 
brave queequeg had dived to the rescue . one packed rush was made to the 
side , and every eye counted every ripple , as moment followed moment , and 
no sign of either the UNK or the diver could be seen . some hands now 
jumped into a boat alongside , and pushed a little off from the ship . 
" ha ! ha ! " cried daggoo , all at once , from his now quiet , swinging perch 
overhead ; and looking further off from the side , we saw an arm thrust 
upright from the blue waves ; a sight strange to see , as an arm thrust 
forth from the grass over a grave . 
" both ! both ! - it is both ! " - cried daggoo again with a joyful shout ; and 
soon after , queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand , and 
with the other clutching the long hair of the indian . drawn into the 
waiting boat , they were quickly brought to the deck ; but tashtego was 
long in coming to , and queequeg did not look very brisk . 
now , how had this noble rescue been accomplished ? why , diving after 
the slowly descending head , queequeg with his keen sword had made 
side UNK near its bottom , so as to scuttle a large hole there ; then 
dropping his sword , had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards , 
and so hauled out poor tash by the head . he averred , that upon first 
thrusting in for him , a leg was presented ; but well knowing that that 
was not as it ought to be , and might occasion great trouble ; - he had 
thrust back the leg , and by a dexterous heave and toss , had wrought a 
somerset upon the indian ; so that with the next trial , he came forth in 
the good old way - head foremost . as for the great head itself , that was 
doing as well as could be expected . 
and thus , through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of queequeg , 
the deliverance , or rather , delivery of tashtego , was successfully 
accomplished , in the teeth , too , of the most untoward and apparently 
hopeless UNK ; which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten . 
UNK should be taught in the same course with UNK and UNK , 
riding and rowing . 
i know that this queer adventure of the gay - header ' s will be sure to 
seem incredible to some landsmen , though they themselves may have either 
seen or heard of some one ' s falling into a cistern ashore ; an accident 
which not seldom happens , and with much less reason too than the 
indian ' s , considering the exceeding UNK of the UNK of the 
sperm whale ' s well . 
but , peradventure , it may be UNK urged , how is this ? we thought 
the UNK , infiltrated head of the sperm whale , was the UNK and 
most UNK part about him ; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of 
a far greater specific gravity than itself . we have thee there . not at 
all , but i have ye ; for at the time poor tash fell in , the case had been 
nearly emptied of its lighter contents , leaving little but the dense 
tendinous wall of the well - a double welded , hammered substance , as i 
have before said , much heavier than the sea water , and a UNK of which 
UNK in it like lead almost . but the tendency to rapid sinking in this 
substance was in the present instance materially UNK by the 
other parts of the head remaining UNK from it , so that it sank 
very slowly and deliberately indeed , UNK queequeg a fair chance 
for performing his UNK obstetrics on the run , as you may say . yes , it 
was a running delivery , so it was . 
now , had tashtego perished in that head , it had been a very precious 
perishing ; UNK in the very UNK and daintiest of fragrant 
spermaceti ; UNK , hearsed , and tombed in the secret inner chamber 
and UNK UNK of the whale . only one UNK end can readily be 
recalled - the delicious death of an ohio honey - hunter , who seeking honey 
in the crotch of a hollow tree , found such exceeding store of it , that 
leaning too far over , it sucked him in , so that he died embalmed . 
how many , think ye , have likewise fallen into plato ' s honey head , and 
sweetly perished there ? 
chapter UNK . the prairie . 
to UNK the lines of his face , or feel the bumps on the head of this 
leviathan ; this is a thing which no UNK or UNK has as 
yet undertaken . such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for 
lavater to have UNK the wrinkles on the rock of UNK , 
or for gall to have mounted a ladder and UNK the dome of the 
UNK . still , in that famous work of his , lavater not only treats 
of the various faces of men , but also attentively UNK the faces 
of horses , birds , serpents , and fish ; and UNK in detail upon the 
UNK of expression discernible therein . nor have gall and 
his UNK UNK failed to throw out some hints touching the 
phrenological characteristics of other beings than man . therefore , 
though i am but ill qualified for a pioneer , in the application of these 
two semi - sciences to the whale , i will do my endeavor . i try all things ; 
i UNK what i can . 
physiognomically regarded , the sperm whale is an anomalous creature . 
he has no proper nose . and since the nose is the central and most 
conspicuous of the features ; and since it perhaps most UNK and 
finally controls their combined expression ; hence it would seem that its 
entire absence , as an external UNK , must very largely affect 
the countenance of the whale . for as in landscape UNK , a spire , 
UNK , UNK , or tower of some sort , is deemed almost indispensable 
to the UNK of the scene ; so no face can be physiognomically in 
keeping without the elevated open - work UNK of the nose . dash the nose 
from UNK ' s marble jove , and what a sorry remainder ! nevertheless , 
leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude , all his proportions are so 
stately , that the same deficiency which in the sculptured jove were 
hideous , in him is no UNK at all . nay , it is an added grandeur . a 
nose to the whale would have been impertinent . as on your physiognomical 
voyage you sail round his vast head in your jolly - boat , your noble 
UNK of him are never insulted by the reflection that he has a 
nose to be pulled . a pestilent conceit , which so often will insist upon 
UNK even when beholding the mightiest royal beadle on his throne . 
in some particulars , perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to 
be had of the sperm whale , is that of the full front of his head . this 
aspect is sublime . 
in thought , a fine human brow is like the east when troubled with the 
morning . in the repose of the pasture , the curled brow of the bull has a 
touch of the grand in it . pushing heavy cannon up mountain UNK , the 
elephant ' s brow is majestic . human or animal , the mystical brow is as 
that great golden seal UNK by the german emperors to their UNK . 
it signifies - " god : done this day by my hand . " but in most creatures , 
nay in man himself , very often the brow is but a mere strip of UNK 
land lying along the snow line . few are the foreheads which like 
UNK ' s or UNK ' s rise so high , and descend so low , that the 
eyes themselves seem clear , eternal , UNK mountain lakes ; and all 
above them in the forehead ' s wrinkles , you seem to track the UNK 
thoughts descending there to drink , as the highland hunters track the 
snow prints of the deer . but in the great sperm whale , this high and 
mighty god - like dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely UNK , 
that gazing on it , in that full front view , you feel the deity and the 
dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living 
nature . for you see no one point precisely ; not one distinct feature is 
revealed ; no nose , eyes , ears , or mouth ; no face ; he has none , proper ; 
nothing but that one broad firmament of a forehead , UNK with 
riddles ; UNK lowering with the doom of boats , and ships , and men . 
nor , in profile , does this wondrous brow diminish ; though that way 
viewed its grandeur does not UNK upon you so . in profile , you 
plainly perceive that horizontal , semi - crescentic depression in the 
forehead ' s middle , which , in man , is lavater ' s mark of genius . 
but how ? genius in the sperm whale ? has the sperm whale ever written 
a book , spoken a speech ? no , his great genius is declared in his 
doing nothing particular to prove it . it is moreover declared in his 
pyramidical silence . and this reminds me that had the great sperm whale 
been known to the young UNK world , he would have been deified by 
their child - magian thoughts . they deified the crocodile of the UNK , 
because the crocodile is UNK ; and the sperm whale has no 
tongue , or at least it is so exceedingly small , as to be incapable of 
UNK . if hereafter any highly UNK , poetical nation shall UNK 
back to their birth - right , the merry may - day gods of old ; and livingly 
UNK them again in the now egotistical sky ; in the now UNK 
hill ; then be sure , exalted to jove ' s high seat , the great sperm whale 
shall lord it . 
UNK UNK the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics . but there is 
no UNK to UNK the egypt of every man ' s and every being ' s 
face . UNK , like every other human science , is but a passing 
fable . if then , sir william jones , who read in thirty UNK , could 
not read the UNK UNK ' s face in its profounder and more subtle 
meanings , how may UNK ishmael hope to read the awful chaldee of 
the sperm whale ' s brow ? i but put that brow before you . read it if you 
can . 
chapter UNK . the nut . 
if the sperm whale be physiognomically a UNK , to the UNK his 
brain seems that UNK circle which it is impossible to square . 
in the full - grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet 
in length . UNK the lower jaw , and the side view of this skull is as 
the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level 
base . but in life - as we have elsewhere seen - this inclined plane is 
UNK filled up , and almost UNK by the enormous UNK 
mass of the junk and sperm . at the high end the skull forms a crater to 
bed that part of the mass ; while under the long floor of this crater - in 
another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in 
depth - UNK the mere handful of this monster ' s brain . the brain is at 
least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life ; it is hidden 
away behind its vast UNK , like the innermost UNK within the 
UNK UNK of quebec . so like a choice casket is it 
UNK in him , that i have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny 
that the sperm whale has any other brain than that palpable UNK 
of one formed by the cubic - yards of his sperm UNK . lying in strange 
folds , courses , and UNK , to their apprehensions , it seems more 
in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that mystic part 
of him as the seat of his intelligence . 
it is plain , then , that phrenologically the head of this leviathan , in 
the creature ' s living intact state , is an entire delusion . as for his 
true brain , you can then see no indications of it , nor feel any . the 
whale , like all things that are mighty , wears a false brow to the common 
world . 
if you UNK his skull of its UNK heaps and then take a rear view 
of its rear end , which is the high end , you will be struck by its 
resemblance to the human skull , beheld in the same situation , and from 
the same point of view . indeed , place this UNK skull ( UNK down 
to the human magnitude ) among a plate of men ' s skulls , and you would 
involuntarily UNK it with them ; and UNK the UNK on 
one part of its summit , in phrenological phrase you would say - this 
man had no self - esteem , and no UNK . and by those UNK , 
considered along with the UNK fact of his prodigious bulk and 
power , you can best form to yourself the truest , though not the most 
exhilarating UNK of what the most exalted potency is . 
but if from the comparative dimensions of the whale ' s proper brain , you 
deem it incapable of being adequately charted , then i have another idea 
for you . if you attentively regard almost any quadruped ' s spine , 
you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a UNK 
UNK of UNK skulls , all bearing rudimental resemblance to the 
skull proper . it is a german conceit , that the vertebrae are absolutely 
undeveloped skulls . but the curious external resemblance , i take it 
the germans were not the first men to perceive . a foreign friend once 
pointed it out to me , in the skeleton of a foe he had slain , and with 
the vertebrae of which he was UNK , in a sort of UNK - UNK , the 
beaked prow of his canoe . now , i consider that the phrenologists have 
omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the 
cerebellum through the spinal canal . for i believe that much of a man ' s 
character will be found betokened in his backbone . i would rather feel 
your spine than your skull , whoever you are . a thin joist of a spine 
never yet upheld a full and noble soul . i rejoice in my spine , as in the 
firm audacious staff of that flag which i fling half out to the world . 
UNK this spinal branch of UNK to the sperm whale . his cranial 
cavity is continuous with the first neck - vertebra ; and in that vertebra 
the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across , being 
eight in height , and of a triangular figure with the base downwards . as 
it passes through the remaining vertebrae the canal tapers in size , but 
for a considerable distance remains of large capacity . now , of course , 
this canal is filled with much the same strangely UNK substance - the 
spinal cord - as the brain ; and directly communicates with the brain . 
and what is still more , for many feet after UNK from the brain ' s 
cavity , the spinal cord remains of an UNK girth , almost 
equal to that of the brain . under all these circumstances , would it be 
unreasonable to survey and map out the whale ' s spine phrenologically ? 
for , viewed in this light , the wonderful comparative UNK of his 
brain proper is more than UNK by the wonderful comparative 
magnitude of his spinal cord . 
but leaving this hint to UNK as it may with the phrenologists , i 
would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment , in reference to the 
sperm whale ' s hump . this august hump , if i mistake not , rises over one 
of the larger vertebrae , and is , therefore , in some sort , the outer 
UNK mould of it . from its relative situation then , i should call this 
high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the sperm whale . 
and that the great monster is UNK , you will yet have reason to 
know . 
chapter UNK . the pequod meets the virgin . 
the predestinated day arrived , and we duly met the ship jungfrau , derick 
de deer , master , of UNK . 
at one time the greatest whaling people in the world , the dutch and 
germans are now among the least ; but here and there at very wide 
intervals of latitude and longitude , you still occasionally meet with 
their flag in the pacific . 
for some reason , the jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects . 
while yet some distance from the pequod , she rounded to , and dropping a 
boat , her captain was impelled towards us , impatiently standing in the 
bows instead of the stern . 
" what has he in his hand there ? " cried starbuck , pointing to something 
UNK held by the german . " impossible ! - a lamp - feeder ! " 
" not that , " said stubb , " no , no , it ' s a coffee - pot , mr . starbuck ; he ' s 
coming off to make us our coffee , is the yarman ; don ' t you see that big 
UNK can there alongside of him ? - that ' s his boiling water . oh ! he ' s all 
right , is the yarman . " 
" go along with you , " cried flask , " it ' s a lamp - feeder and an oil - can . 
he ' s out of oil , and has come a - begging . " 
however curious it may seem for an oil - ship to be UNK oil on the 
whale - ground , and however much it may UNK UNK the old 
proverb about carrying coals to UNK , yet sometimes such a thing 
really happens ; and in the present case captain derick de deer did 
UNK conduct a lamp - feeder as flask did declare . 
as he mounted the deck , ahab abruptly accosted him , without at all 
heeding what he had in his hand ; but in his broken lingo , the german 
soon evinced his complete ignorance of the white whale ; immediately 
turning the conversation to his lamp - feeder and oil can , with some 
remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in 
profound darkness - his last drop of UNK oil being gone , and not a 
single flying - fish yet captured to supply the deficiency ; concluding 
by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the fishery is technically 
called a clean one ( that is , an empty one ) , well UNK the name of 
jungfrau or the virgin . 
his necessities supplied , derick departed ; but he had not gained his 
ship ' s side , when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the 
mast - heads of both vessels ; and so eager for the chase was derick , that 
without pausing to put his oil - can and lamp - feeder aboard , he UNK 
round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp - feeders . 
now , the game having risen to leeward , he and the other three german 
boats that soon followed him , had considerably the start of the pequod ' s 
keels . there were eight whales , an average pod . aware of their danger , 
they were going all abreast with great speed straight before the wind , 
rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in UNK . 
they left a great , wide wake , as though continually UNK a great 
wide parchment upon the sea . 
full in this rapid wake , and many fathoms in the rear , swam a huge , 
humped old bull , which by his comparatively slow progress , as well as 
by the unusual UNK UNK UNK him , seemed UNK 
with the UNK , or some other UNK . whether this whale belonged 
to the pod in advance , seemed UNK ; for it is not customary for 
such venerable leviathans to be at all social . nevertheless , he stuck 
to their wake , though indeed their back water must have UNK him , 
because the white - bone or swell at his broad UNK was a dashed one , 
like the swell formed when two hostile currents meet . his spout was 
short , slow , and laborious ; coming forth with a choking sort of gush , 
and spending itself in torn shreds , followed by strange subterranean 
UNK in him , which seemed to have egress at his other buried 
extremity , UNK the waters behind him to UNK . 
" who ' s got some UNK ? " said stubb , " he has the stomach - ache , i ' m 
afraid . lord , think of having half an UNK of stomach - ache ! UNK 
winds are holding mad christmas in him , boys . it ' s the first foul wind 
i ever knew to blow from astern ; but look , did ever whale UNK so before ? 
it must be , he ' s lost his tiller . " 
as an UNK UNK bearing down the UNK coast with a deck 
load of frightened horses , careens , UNK , rolls , and UNK on her 
way ; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk , and now and then partly 
turning over on his UNK rib - ends , expose the cause of his UNK 
wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin . whether he had lost 
that fin in battle , or had been born without it , it were hard to say . 
" only wait a bit , old chap , and i ' ll give ye a UNK for that wounded 
arm , " cried cruel flask , pointing to the whale - line near him . 
" mind he don ' t UNK thee with it , " cried starbuck . " give way , or the 
german will have him . " 
with one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this 
one fish , because not only was he the largest , and therefore the most 
valuable whale , but he was nearest to them , and the other whales were 
going with such great velocity , moreover , as almost to defy pursuit 
for the time . at this juncture the pequod ' s keels had shot by the three 
german boats last lowered ; but from the great start he had had , derick ' s 
boat still led the chase , though every moment neared by his foreign 
rivals . the only thing they feared , was , that from being already so 
nigh to his mark , he would be enabled to dart his iron before they 
could completely overtake and pass him . as for derick , he seemed quite 
confident that this would be the case , and occasionally with a UNK 
UNK shook his lamp - feeder at the other boats . 
" the UNK and ungrateful dog ! " cried starbuck ; " he UNK and UNK 
me with the very poor - box i filled for him not five minutes ago ! " - then 
in his old intense whisper - " give way , UNK ! dog to it ! " 
" i tell ye what it is , men " - cried stubb to his crew - " it ' s against 
my religion to get mad ; but i ' d like to eat that UNK 
yarman - pull - won ' t ye ? are ye going to let that rascal beat ye ? do 
ye love brandy ? a hogshead of brandy , then , to the best man . come , 
why don ' t some of ye burst a blood - vessel ? who ' s that been dropping an 
anchor overboard - we don ' t budge an inch - we ' re becalmed . UNK , here ' s 
grass growing in the boat ' s bottom - and by the lord , the mast there ' s 
UNK . this won ' t do , boys . look at that yarman ! the short and long of 
it is , men , will ye UNK fire or not ? " 
" oh ! see the UNK he makes ! " cried flask , dancing up and down - " what 
a hump - oh , do pile on the beef - lays like a log ! oh ! my lads , do 
spring - slap - jacks and UNK for supper , you know , my lads - baked 
clams and UNK - oh , do , do , spring , - he ' s a hundred UNK - don ' t 
lose him now - don ' t oh , don ' t ! - see that yarman - oh , won ' t ye pull for 
your UNK , my lads - such a UNK ! such a UNK ! don ' t ye love sperm ? 
there goes three thousand dollars , men ! - a bank ! - a whole bank ! the bank 
of england ! - oh , do , do , do ! - what ' s that yarman about now ? " 
at this moment derick was in the act of pitching his lamp - feeder at the 
advancing boats , and also his oil - can ; perhaps with the double view 
of UNK his rivals ' way , and at the same time UNK 
UNK his own by the UNK UNK of the backward toss . 
" the unmannerly dutch UNK ! " cried stubb . " pull now , men , like fifty 
thousand line - of - battle - ship loads of red - haired devils . what d ' ye say , 
tashtego ; are you the man to snap your spine in two - and - twenty pieces 
for the honour of old UNK ? what d ' ye say ? " 
" i say , pull like god - dam , " - cried the indian . 
fiercely , but evenly UNK by the UNK of the german , the pequod ' s 
three boats now began ranging almost abreast ; and , so disposed , 
UNK neared him . in that fine , loose , UNK attitude of 
the headsman when drawing near to his prey , the three mates stood up 
proudly , occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry 
of , " there she slides , now ! hurrah for the white - ash breeze ! down with 
the yarman ! sail over him ! " 
but so decided an original start had derick had , that spite of all 
their UNK , he would have proved the victor in this race , had not 
a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the blade 
of his UNK oarsman . while this clumsy lubber was striving to free 
his white - ash , and while , in consequence , derick ' s boat was nigh to 
capsizing , and he UNK away at his men in a mighty rage ; - that was 
a good time for starbuck , stubb , and flask . with a shout , they took a 
mortal start forwards , and slantingly ranged up on the german ' s quarter . 
an instant more , and all four boats were UNK in the whale ' s 
immediate wake , while stretching from them , on both sides , was the 
foaming swell that he made . 
it was a terrific , most pitiable , and UNK sight . the whale was 
now going head out , and sending his spout before him in a continual 
tormented jet ; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of 
fright . now to this hand , now to that , he UNK in his faltering flight , 
and still at every billow that he broke , he spasmodically sank in the 
sea , or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin . so have i 
seen a bird with UNK wing making affrighted broken circles in the 
air , vainly striving to escape the piratical UNK . but the bird has a 
voice , and with UNK cries will make known her fear ; but the fear 
of this vast dumb brute of the sea , was chained up and enchanted in him ; 
he had no voice , save that choking UNK through his spiracle , 
and this made the sight of him UNK pitiable ; while still , in his 
amazing bulk , UNK jaw , and omnipotent tail , there was enough to 
appal the stoutest man who so UNK . 
seeing now that but a very few moments more would give the pequod ' s 
boats the advantage , and rather than be thus foiled of his game , derick 
UNK to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually long dart , 
ere the last chance would for ever escape . 
but no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke , than all three 
UNK - queequeg , tashtego , daggoo - instinctively sprang to their feet , 
and standing in a UNK row , simultaneously pointed their barbs ; and 
darted over the head of the german harpooneer , their three nantucket 
irons entered the whale . blinding vapours of foam and white - fire ! the 
three boats , in the first fury of the whale ' s headlong rush , UNK 
the german ' s aside with such force , that both derick and his UNK 
harpooneer were spilled out , and sailed over by the three flying keels . 
" don ' t be afraid , my butter - boxes , " cried stubb , casting a passing 
glance upon them as he shot by ; " ye ' ll be picked up presently - all 
right - i saw some sharks astern - st . bernard ' s dogs , you know - relieve 
distressed travellers . hurrah ! this is the way to sail now . every keel a 
UNK ! hurrah ! - here we go like three UNK UNK at the tail of a mad 
UNK ! this puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a UNK on 
a plain - makes the wheel - spokes fly , boys , when you fasten to him that 
way ; and there ' s danger of being pitched out too , when you strike a 
hill . hurrah ! this is the way a fellow feels when he ' s going to davy 
jones - all a rush down an endless inclined plane ! hurrah ! this whale 
carries the everlasting UNK ! " 
but the monster ' s run was a brief one . giving a sudden gasp , he 
UNK sounded . with a grating rush , the three lines flew round 
the UNK with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them ; 
while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would 
soon UNK the lines , that using all their dexterous might , they 
caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on ; till at 
last - owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead - UNK chocks of 
the boats , whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue - the 
gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water , while the three 
sterns tilted high in the air . and the whale soon UNK to sound , 
for some time they remained in that attitude , fearful of UNK more 
line , though the position was a little ticklish . but though boats have 
been taken down and lost in this way , yet it is this " holding on , " as it 
is called ; this UNK up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh from 
the back ; this it is that often torments the leviathan into soon rising 
again to meet the sharp lance of his foes . yet not to speak of the peril 
of the thing , it is to be doubted whether this course is always the 
best ; for it is but reasonable to presume , that the longer the stricken 
whale stays under water , the more he is exhausted . because , owing to the 
enormous surface of him - in a full grown sperm whale something less than 
UNK square feet - the pressure of the water is immense . we all know 
what an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under ; even 
here , above - ground , in the air ; how vast , then , the burden of a whale , 
bearing on his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean ! it must at 
least equal the weight of fifty UNK . one whaleman has estimated 
it at the weight of twenty line - of - battle ships , with all their guns , 
and stores , and men on board . 
as the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea , gazing down 
into its eternal blue noon ; and as not a single UNK or cry of any 
sort , nay , not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths ; 
what landsman would have thought , that beneath all that silence and 
UNK , the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in 
agony ! not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows . 
seems it UNK that by three such thin threads the great leviathan 
was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock . suspended ? and 
to what ? to three bits of board . is this the creature of whom it was 
once so UNK said - " canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons ? 
or his head with fish - spears ? the sword of him that UNK at him cannot 
hold , the spear , the dart , nor the UNK : he UNK iron as 
straw ; the arrow cannot make him flee ; darts are counted as UNK ; 
he UNK at the shaking of a spear ! " this the creature ? this he ? oh ! 
that UNK should follow the prophets . for with the strength 
of a thousand UNK in his tail , leviathan had run his head under the 
mountains of the sea , to hide him from the pequod ' s fish - spears ! 
in that sloping afternoon sunlight , the shadows that the three boats 
sent down beneath the surface , must have been long enough and broad 
enough to shade half xerxes ' army . who can tell how appalling to the 
wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head ! 
" stand by , men ; he stirs , " cried starbuck , as the three lines suddenly 
vibrated in the water , distinctly UNK upwards to them , as by 
magnetic UNK , the life and death UNK of the whale , so that every 
oarsman felt them in his seat . the next moment , relieved in great part 
from the downward strain at the bows , the boats gave a sudden UNK 
upwards , as a small UNK will , when a dense herd of white bears are 
scared from it into the sea . 
" haul in ! haul in ! " cried starbuck again ; " he ' s rising . " 
the lines , of which , hardly an instant before , not one hand ' s breadth 
could have been gained , were now in long quick coils flung back all 
dripping into the boats , and soon the whale broke water within two 
ship ' s lengths of the hunters . 
his motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion . in most land animals 
there are certain UNK or flood - UNK in many of their veins , whereby 
when wounded , the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off in 
certain directions . not so with the whale ; one of whose peculiarities 
it is to have an entire non - UNK structure of the blood - vessels , so 
that when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon , a deadly 
UNK is at once begun upon his whole UNK system ; and when this is 
heightened by the extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance 
below the surface , his life may be said to pour from him in incessant 
streams . yet so vast is the quantity of blood in him , and so distant 
and numerous its interior fountains , that he will keep thus bleeding and 
bleeding for a considerable period ; even as in a drought a river will 
flow , whose source is in the well - springs of far - off and undiscernible 
hills . even now , when the boats pulled upon this whale , and UNK 
drew over his swaying flukes , and the lances were darted into him , 
they were followed by steady jets from the new made wound , which kept 
continually playing , while the natural spout - hole in his head was only 
at intervals , however rapid , sending its affrighted moisture into the 
air . from this last UNK no blood yet came , because no vital part of him 
had thus far been struck . his life , as they significantly call it , was 
UNK . 
as the boats now more closely surrounded him , the whole upper part of 
his form , with much of it that is ordinarily submerged , was plainly 
revealed . his eyes , or rather the places where his eyes had been , were 
beheld . as strange UNK masses gather in the knot - holes of the 
noblest UNK when UNK , so from the points which the whale ' s eyes 
had once occupied , now UNK blind UNK , horribly pitiable to see . 
but pity there was none . for all his old age , and his one arm , and his 
blind eyes , he must die the death and be murdered , in order to light the 
gay UNK and other merry - UNK of men , and also to illuminate the 
solemn churches that preach unconditional UNK by all to all . 
still rolling in his blood , at last he partially disclosed a strangely 
discoloured bunch or UNK , the size of a UNK , low down on the 
flank . 
" a nice spot , " cried flask ; " just let me prick him there once . " 
" avast ! " cried starbuck , " there ' s no need of that ! " 
but humane starbuck was too late . at the instant of the dart an 
UNK jet shot from this cruel wound , and UNK by it into more than 
sufferable anguish , the whale now spouting thick blood , with swift fury 
blindly darted at the craft , UNK them and their UNK crews 
all over with showers of gore , capsizing flask ' s boat and UNK the 
bows . it was his death stroke . for , by this time , so spent was he by 
loss of blood , that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had 
made ; lay panting on his side , impotently UNK with his UNK fin , 
then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world ; turned up 
the white secrets of his belly ; lay like a log , and died . it was most 
piteous , that last expiring spout . as when by unseen hands the water 
is gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain , and with half - UNK 
melancholy UNK the spray - column UNK and UNK to the 
ground - so the last long dying spout of the whale . 
soon , while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship , the body 
showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures UNK . immediately , 
by starbuck ' s orders , lines were secured to it at different points , so 
that ere long every boat was a UNK ; the sunken whale being suspended a 
few inches beneath them by the cords . by very heedful management , when 
the ship drew nigh , the whale was transferred to her side , and was 
strongly secured there by the stiffest fluke - chains , for it was plain 
that unless UNK upheld , the body would at once sink to the 
bottom . 
it so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade , 
the entire length of a UNK harpoon was found UNK in his flesh , 
on the lower part of the bunch before described . but as the UNK of 
harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured whales , 
with the flesh perfectly UNK around them , and no UNK of any 
kind to UNK their place ; therefore , there must needs have been 
some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for 
the UNK alluded to . but still more curious was the fact of a 
lance - head of stone being found in him , not far from the buried iron , 
the flesh perfectly firm about it . who had darted that stone lance ? and 
when ? it might have been darted by some nor ' west indian long before 
america was discovered . 
what other marvels might have been UNK out of this monstrous 
cabinet there is no telling . but a sudden stop was put to further 
UNK , by the ship ' s being UNK dragged over sideways 
to the sea , owing to the body ' s immensely increasing tendency to sink . 
however , starbuck , who had the UNK of affairs , hung on to it to the 
last ; hung on to it so resolutely , indeed , that when at length the ship 
would have been capsized , if still UNK in UNK arms with the 
body ; then , when the command was given to break clear from it , such was 
the immovable strain upon the timber - heads to which the fluke - chains and 
cables were fastened , that it was impossible to cast them off . meantime 
everything in the pequod was UNK . to cross to the other side of the 
deck was like walking up the steep UNK roof of a house . the ship 
groaned and UNK . many of the ivory UNK of her bulwarks and 
UNK were started from their places , by the unnatural UNK . 
in vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable 
fluke - chains , to pry them adrift from the UNK ; and so low 
had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all 
approached , while every moment whole tons of UNK seemed added to 
the sinking bulk , and the ship seemed on the point of going over . 
" hold on , hold on , won ' t ye ? " cried stubb to the body , " don ' t be in such 
a devil of a hurry to sink ! by thunder , men , we must do something or go 
for it . no use prying there ; avast , i say with your handspikes , and run 
one of ye for a prayer book and a pen - knife , and cut the big chains . " 
" knife ? aye , aye , " cried queequeg , and seizing the carpenter ' s heavy 
hatchet , he leaned out of a porthole , and steel to iron , began UNK 
at the largest fluke - chains . but a few UNK , full of UNK , were 
given , when the exceeding strain effected the rest . with a terrific 
snap , every fastening went adrift ; the ship righted , the carcase sank . 
now , this occasional UNK sinking of the recently killed sperm 
whale is a very curious thing ; nor has any fisherman yet adequately 
accounted for it . usually the dead sperm whale floats with great 
buoyancy , with its side or belly considerably elevated above the 
surface . if the only whales that thus sank were old , meagre , and 
broken - hearted creatures , their UNK of lard diminished and all their 
bones heavy and rheumatic ; then you might with some reason assert that 
this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so 
sinking , consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him . but it 
is not so . for young whales , in the highest health , and swelling with 
noble UNK , UNK cut off in the warm UNK and may of 
life , with all their panting lard about them ; even these brawny , buoyant 
heroes do sometimes sink . 
be it said , however , that the sperm whale is far less liable to this 
accident than any other species . where one of that sort go down , twenty 
right whales do . this difference in the species is no doubt UNK in 
no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the right whale ; 
his venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton ; from this 
UNK the sperm whale is wholly free . but there are instances 
where , after the UNK of many hours or several days , the sunken whale 
again rises , more buoyant than in life . but the reason of this 
is obvious . gases are UNK in him ; he swells to a prodigious 
magnitude ; becomes a sort of animal UNK . a line - of - battle ship could 
hardly keep him under then . in the shore whaling , on soundings , among 
the UNK of new zealand , when a right whale gives token of sinking , they 
fasten UNK to him , with plenty of rope ; so that when the body has gone 
down , they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again . 
it was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from 
the pequod ' s mast - heads , announcing that the jungfrau was again lowering 
her boats ; though the only spout in sight was that of a fin - back , 
belonging to the species of UNK whales , because of its 
incredible power of swimming . nevertheless , the fin - back ' s spout is so 
similar to the sperm whale ' s , that by UNK fishermen it is often 
mistaken for it . and consequently derick and all his host were now in 
valiant chase of this UNK brute . the virgin crowding all sail , 
made after her four young keels , and thus they all disappeared far to 
leeward , still in bold , hopeful chase . 
oh ! many are the fin - backs , and many are the UNK , my friend . 
chapter UNK . the honour and glory of whaling . 
there are some UNK in which a careful UNK is the true 
method . 
the more i dive into this matter of whaling , and push my researches up 
to the very spring - head of it so much the more am i impressed with its 
great UNK and antiquity ; and especially when i find so many 
great UNK - gods and heroes , prophets of all sorts , who one way or other 
have shed distinction upon it , i am transported with the reflection 
that i myself belong , though but UNK , to so UNK a 
fraternity . 
the gallant perseus , a son of jupiter , was the first whaleman ; and 
to the eternal honour of our calling be it said , that the first whale 
attacked by our UNK was not killed with any UNK intent . those 
were the UNK days of our profession , when we only bore arms to 
succor the distressed , and not to fill men ' s lamp - feeders . every one 
knows the fine story of perseus and andromeda ; how the lovely andromeda , 
the UNK of a king , was tied to a rock on the sea - coast , and as 
leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off , perseus , the prince 
of whalemen , UNK advancing , harpooned the monster , and delivered 
and UNK the maid . it was an admirable artistic exploit , rarely 
achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day ; inasmuch as this 
leviathan was slain at the very first dart . and let no man doubt this 
UNK story ; for in the ancient joppa , now jaffa , on the syrian coast , 
in one of the pagan temples , there stood for many ages the vast skeleton 
of a whale , which the city ' s UNK and all the inhabitants asserted to 
be the identical bones of the monster that perseus UNK . when the romans 
took joppa , the same skeleton was carried to UNK in UNK . what 
seems most singular and UNK important in this story , is this : 
it was from joppa that jonah set sail . 
akin to the adventure of perseus and andromeda - indeed , by some supposed 
to be indirectly derived from it - is that famous story of st . george and 
the dragon ; which dragon i maintain to have been a whale ; for in many 
old UNK whales and UNK are strangely UNK together , and 
often stand for each other . " thou art as a lion of the waters , and as a 
dragon of the sea , " saith ezekiel ; hereby , plainly meaning a whale ; 
in truth , some UNK of the bible use that word itself . besides , it 
would much UNK from the glory of the exploit had st . george but 
encountered a crawling reptile of the land , instead of doing battle 
with the great monster of the deep . any man may kill a snake , but only a 
perseus , a st . george , a coffin , have the heart in them to march boldly 
up to a whale . 
let not the modern paintings of this scene UNK us ; for though 
the creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely 
represented of a UNK - like shape , and though the battle is depicted 
on land and the saint on UNK , yet considering the great ignorance 
of those times , when the true form of the whale was unknown to UNK ; 
and considering that as in perseus ' case , st . george ' s whale might have 
UNK up out of the sea on the beach ; and considering that the animal 
ridden by st . george might have been only a large seal , or sea - horse ; 
bearing all this in mind , it will not appear altogether incompatible 
with the sacred legend and the UNK draughts of the scene , to 
hold this so - called dragon no other than the great leviathan himself . in 
fact , placed before the strict and piercing truth , this whole story will 
fare like that fish , flesh , and fowl idol of the philistines , UNK by 
name ; who being planted before the ark of UNK , his horse ' s head and 
both the palms of his hands fell off from him , and only the stump or 
fishy part of him remained . thus , then , one of our own noble stamp , even 
a whaleman , is the UNK UNK of england ; and by good rights , we 
harpooneers of nantucket should be enrolled in the most noble order 
of st . george . and therefore , let not the knights of that honourable 
company ( none of whom , i venture to say , have ever had to do with a 
whale like their great UNK ) , let them never eye a nantucketer with 
disdain , since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers we are 
much better entitled to st . george ' s UNK than they . 
whether to admit hercules among us or not , concerning this i long 
remained dubious : for though according to the greek mythologies , that 
antique UNK and UNK UNK - that brawny UNK of rejoicing good 
UNK , was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale ; still , whether 
that strictly makes a whaleman of him , that might be UNK . it nowhere 
appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish , unless , indeed , 
from the inside . nevertheless , he may be deemed a sort of involuntary 
whaleman ; at any rate the whale caught him , if he did not the whale . i 
claim him for one of our UNK . 
but , by the best contradictory authorities , this grecian story of 
hercules and the whale is considered to be derived from the still more 
ancient hebrew story of jonah and the whale ; and vice UNK ; certainly 
they are very similar . if i claim the UNK then , why not the prophet ? 
nor do heroes , UNK , UNK , and prophets alone UNK the whole 
roll of our order . our grand master is still to be named ; for like royal 
kings of old times , we find the head waters of our fraternity in nothing 
short of the great gods themselves . that wondrous oriental story is now 
to be UNK from the UNK , which gives us the dread vishnoo , one 
of the three persons in the UNK of the UNK ; gives us this divine 
vishnoo himself for our lord ; - vishnoo , who , by the first of his ten 
earthly UNK , has for ever set apart and UNK the whale . 
when brahma , or the god of gods , saith the UNK , resolved to UNK 
the world after one of its periodical UNK , he gave birth to 
vishnoo , to UNK over the work ; but the vedas , or mystical books , 
whose UNK would seem to have been indispensable to vishnoo before 
beginning the creation , and which therefore must have contained 
something in the shape of practical hints to young architects , these 
vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters ; so vishnoo became 
incarnate in a whale , and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths , 
rescued the sacred UNK . was not this vishnoo a whaleman , then ? even 
as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman ? 
perseus , st . george , hercules , jonah , and vishnoo ! there ' s a member - roll 
for you ! what club but the whaleman ' s can head off like that ? 
chapter UNK . jonah UNK regarded . 
reference was made to the historical story of jonah and the whale in the 
preceding chapter . now some nantucketers rather UNK this historical 
story of jonah and the whale . but then there were some UNK UNK 
and romans , who , standing out from the UNK pagans of their times , 
equally doubted the story of hercules and the whale , and UNK and the 
dolphin ; and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those 
traditions one whit the less facts , for all that . 
one old sag - harbor whaleman ' s chief reason for questioning the hebrew 
story was this : - he had one of those UNK old - fashioned UNK , 
UNK with curious , UNK plates ; one of which represented 
jonah ' s whale with two spouts in his head - a peculiarity only true 
with respect to a species of the leviathan ( the right whale , and the 
varieties of that order ) , concerning which the fishermen have this 
saying , " a penny roll would UNK him " ; his swallow is so very small . 
but , to this , bishop UNK ' s UNK answer is ready . it is not 
necessary , hints the bishop , that we consider jonah as tombed in the 
whale ' s belly , but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth . and 
this seems reasonable enough in the good bishop . for truly , the 
right whale ' s mouth would accommodate a couple of UNK - tables , and 
comfortably seat all the players . possibly , too , jonah might have 
UNK himself in a hollow tooth ; but , on second thoughts , the right 
whale is UNK . 
another reason which sag - harbor ( he went by that name ) urged for his 
want of faith in this matter of the prophet , was something obscurely in 
reference to his UNK body and the whale ' s UNK UNK . but 
this UNK likewise UNK to the ground , because a german UNK 
UNK that jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a 
dead whale - even as the french soldiers in the russian UNK turned 
their dead horses into tents , and UNK into them . besides , it has 
been UNK by other continental commentators , that when jonah was 
thrown overboard from the joppa ship , he straightway effected his escape 
to another vessel near by , some vessel with a whale for a figure - head ; 
and , i would add , possibly called " the whale , " as some craft are 
nowadays UNK the " shark , " the " gull , " the " eagle . " nor have there 
been wanting learned UNK who have UNK that the whale mentioned 
in the book of jonah merely meant a life - UNK - an UNK bag 
of wind - which the endangered prophet swam to , and so was saved from a 
watery doom . poor sag - harbor , therefore , seems worsted all round . but 
he had still another reason for his want of faith . it was this , if i 
remember right : jonah was swallowed by the whale in the mediterranean 
sea , and after three days he was UNK up somewhere within three days ' 
UNK of nineveh , a city on the tigris , very much more than three 
days ' UNK across from the nearest point of the mediterranean coast . 
how is that ? 
but was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that 
short distance of nineveh ? yes . he might have carried him round by the 
way of the cape of good hope . but not to speak of the passage through 
the whole length of the mediterranean , and another passage up the 
persian gulf and red sea , such a supposition would involve the complete 
UNK of all africa in three days , not to speak of the tigris 
waters , near the site of nineveh , being too shallow for any whale to 
swim in . besides , this idea of jonah ' s UNK the cape of good hope 
at so early a day would wrest the honour of the discovery of that great 
UNK from UNK UNK , its UNK UNK , and so make 
modern history a UNK . 
but all these foolish UNK of old sag - harbor only evinced his 
foolish pride of reason - a thing still more UNK in him , seeing 
that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the 
sun and the sea . i say it only shows his foolish , impious pride , and 
abominable , devilish rebellion against the reverend UNK . for by a 
portuguese catholic priest , this very idea of jonah ' s going to nineveh 
UNK the cape of good hope was advanced as a signal UNK of 
the general miracle . and so it was . besides , to this day , the highly 
enlightened turks UNK believe in the historical story of jonah . and 
some three centuries ago , an english traveller in old harris ' s voyages , 
speaks of a turkish UNK built in honour of jonah , in which UNK was 
a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil . 
chapter UNK . pitchpoling . 
to make them run easily and swiftly , the UNK of UNK are 
UNK ; and for much the same purpose , some whalers perform an 
analogous operation upon their boat ; they grease the bottom . nor is it 
to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm , it may possibly 
be of no contemptible advantage ; considering that oil and water are 
hostile ; that oil is a sliding thing , and that the object in view is to 
make the boat slide UNK . queequeg believed strongly in anointing 
his boat , and one morning not long after the german ship jungfrau 
disappeared , took more than customary pains in that occupation ; crawling 
under its bottom , where it hung over the side , and rubbing in the 
unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a UNK of hair from 
the craft ' s UNK keel . he seemed to be working in obedience to some 
particular UNK . nor did it remain unwarranted by the event . 
towards noon whales were raised ; but so soon as the ship sailed down to 
them , they turned and fled with swift UNK ; a disordered flight , 
as of cleopatra ' s UNK from UNK . 
nevertheless , the boats pursued , and stubb ' s was foremost . by great 
exertion , tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron ; but the 
stricken whale , without at all sounding , still continued his horizontal 
flight , with added fleetness . such UNK UNK upon the 
planted iron must sooner or later inevitably UNK it . it became 
UNK to lance the flying whale , or be content to lose him . but 
to haul the boat up to his flank was impossible , he swam so fast and 
furious . what then remained ? 
of all the wondrous devices and UNK , the UNK of hand and 
countless UNK , to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced , 
none exceed that fine UNK with the lance called pitchpoling . small 
sword , or broad sword , in all its UNK UNK nothing like it . it 
is only indispensable with an UNK running whale ; its grand 
fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is 
UNK darted from a violently rocking , jerking boat , under extreme 
headway . steel and wood included , the entire spear is some ten or twelve 
feet in length ; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon , 
and also of a lighter material - pine . it is furnished with a small rope 
called a warp , of considerable length , by which it can be hauled back to 
the hand after darting . 
but before going further , it is important to mention here , that though 
the harpoon may be UNK in the same way with the lance , yet it 
is seldom done ; and when done , is still less frequently successful , 
on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as 
compared with the lance , which in effect become serious UNK . as a 
general thing , therefore , you must first get fast to a whale , before any 
pitchpoling comes into play . 
look now at stubb ; a man who from his humorous , deliberate UNK and 
UNK in the direst UNK , was specially qualified to UNK 
in pitchpoling . look at him ; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the 
flying boat ; wrapt in UNK foam , the towing whale is forty feet ahead . 
handling the long lance lightly , glancing twice or thrice along its 
length to see if it be exactly straight , stubb UNK gathers up 
the coil of the warp in one hand , so as to secure its free end in his 
grasp , leaving the rest unobstructed . then holding the lance full before 
his UNK ' s middle , he levels it at the whale ; when , covering 
him with it , he steadily depresses the butt - end in his hand , thereby 
elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his 
palm , fifteen feet in the air . he minds you somewhat of a juggler , 
balancing a long staff on his chin . next moment with a rapid , nameless 
impulse , in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming 
distance , and quivers in the life spot of the whale . instead of 
sparkling water , he now spouts red blood . 
" that drove the UNK out of him ! " cried stubb . " ' tis july ' s immortal 
fourth ; all fountains must run wine UNK ! would now , it were old 
UNK UNK , or old ohio , or unspeakable old UNK ! then , 
tashtego , lad , i ' d have ye hold a UNK to the jet , and we ' d drink 
round it ! yea , verily , hearts alive , we ' d UNK choice punch in the 
spread of his spout - hole there , and from that live punch - bowl UNK the 
living stuff . " 
again and again to such gamesome talk , the dexterous dart is repeated , 
the spear returning to its master like a UNK held in UNK 
UNK . the agonized whale goes into his flurry ; the tow - line is 
slackened , and the UNK dropping astern , folds his hands , and 
mutely watches the monster die . 
chapter UNK . the fountain . 
that for six thousand years - and no one knows how many millions of ages 
before - the great whales should have been spouting all over the sea , 
and sprinkling and UNK the gardens of the deep , as with so 
many sprinkling or UNK pots ; and that for some centuries back , 
thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the 
whale , watching these UNK and spoutings - that all this should 
be , and yet , that down to this blessed minute ( fifteen and a quarter 
minutes past one o ' clock UNK . m . of this UNK day of december , a . d . 
UNK ) , it should still remain a problem , whether these spoutings 
are , after all , really water , or nothing but vapour - this is surely a 
noteworthy thing . 
let us , then , look at this matter , along with some interesting items 
UNK . every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their 
gills , the UNK tribes in general breathe the air which at all times is 
combined with the element in which they swim ; hence , a herring or a cod 
might live a century , and never once raise its head above the surface . 
but owing to his marked internal structure which gives him regular 
lungs , like a human being ' s , the whale can only live by inhaling the 
disengaged air in the open atmosphere . wherefore the necessity for 
his periodical visits to the upper world . but he cannot in any degree 
breathe through his mouth , for , in his ordinary attitude , the sperm 
whale ' s mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface ; and 
what is still more , his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth . no , he 
breathes through his spiracle alone ; and this is on the top of his head . 
if i say , that in any creature breathing is only a UNK 
indispensable to vitality , inasmuch as it UNK from the air a 
certain element , which being subsequently brought into contact with the 
blood imparts to the blood its UNK principle , i do not think i 
shall UNK ; though i may possibly use some superfluous scientific words . 
assume it , and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be 
UNK with one breath , he might then seal up his nostrils and not 
fetch another for a considerable time . that is to say , he would then 
live without breathing . anomalous as it may seem , this is precisely the 
case with the whale , who systematically lives , by intervals , his full 
hour and more ( when at the bottom ) without drawing a single breath , or 
so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air ; for , remember , he has 
no gills . how is this ? between his ribs and on each side of his spine 
he is supplied with a remarkable involved cretan labyrinth of 
UNK - like vessels , which vessels , when he UNK the surface , are 
completely distended with UNK blood . so that for an hour or more , 
a thousand fathoms in the sea , he carries a UNK stock of vitality in 
him , just as the camel crossing the UNK desert carries a UNK 
supply of drink for future use in its four supplementary UNK . 
the anatomical fact of this labyrinth is UNK ; and that the 
supposition founded upon it is reasonable and true , seems the more 
cogent to me , when i consider the otherwise inexplicable UNK of 
that leviathan in having his spoutings out , as the fishermen phrase 
it . this is what i mean . if unmolested , upon rising to the surface , the 
sperm whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform 
with all his other unmolested UNK . say he stays UNK minutes , and 
jets seventy times , that is , UNK seventy breaths ; then whenever he 
rises again , he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again , to 
a minute . now , if after he UNK a few breaths you alarm him , so that 
he sounds , he will be always dodging up again to make good his regular 
allowance of air . and not till those seventy breaths are told , will he 
finally go down to stay out his full term below . remark , however , that 
in different individuals these UNK are different ; but in any one 
they are alike . now , why should the whale thus insist upon having his 
spoutings out , unless it be to UNK his reservoir of air , ere 
descending for good ? how obvious is it , too , that this necessity for the 
whale ' s rising UNK him to all the fatal UNK of the chase . for 
not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught , when sailing 
a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight . not so much thy skill , then , o 
hunter , as the great necessities that strike the victory to thee ! 
in man , breathing is incessantly going on - one breath only UNK 
for two or three UNK ; so that whatever other business he has to 
attend to , waking or sleeping , breathe he must , or die he will . but the 
sperm whale only breathes about one seventh or sunday of his time . 
it has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout - hole ; if 
it could UNK be added that his spouts are mixed with water , then 
i opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of smell 
seems UNK in him ; for the only thing about him that at all 
answers to his nose is that identical spout - hole ; and being so UNK 
with two elements , it could not be expected to have the power of 
smelling . but owing to the mystery of the spout - whether it be water or 
whether it be vapour - no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on 
this head . sure it is , nevertheless , that the sperm whale has no proper 
UNK . but what does he want of them ? no roses , no UNK , no 
cologne - water in the sea . 
furthermore , as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting 
canal , and as that long canal - like the grand erie canal - is furnished 
with a sort of locks ( that open and shut ) for the downward UNK of 
air or the upward UNK of water , therefore the whale has no voice ; 
unless you insult him by saying , that when he so strangely UNK , 
he UNK through his nose . but then again , what has the whale to say ? 
seldom have i known any profound being that had anything to say to 
this world , unless forced to UNK out something by way of getting a 
living . oh ! happy that the world is such an excellent UNK ! 
now , the spouting canal of the sperm whale , chiefly intended as it 
is for the UNK of air , and for several feet laid along , 
horizontally , just beneath the upper surface of his head , and a little 
to one side ; this curious canal is very much like a gas - pipe laid down 
in a city on one side of a street . but the question UNK whether this 
gas - pipe is also a water - pipe ; in other words , whether the spout of the 
sperm whale is the mere vapour of the exhaled breath , or whether that 
exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth , and 
discharged through the spiracle . it is certain that the mouth indirectly 
communicates with the spouting canal ; but it cannot be proved that this 
is for the purpose of UNK water through the spiracle . because 
the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be , when in feeding he 
accidentally takes in water . but the sperm whale ' s food is far beneath 
the surface , and there he cannot spout even if he would . besides , if 
you regard him very closely , and time him with your watch , you will find 
that when unmolested , there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods 
of his jets and the ordinary periods of UNK . 
but why UNK one with all this reasoning on the subject ? speak out ! 
you have seen him spout ; then declare what the spout is ; can you not 
tell water from air ? my dear sir , in this world it is not so easy to 
settle these plain things . i have ever found your plain things the 
UNK of all . and as for this whale spout , you might almost stand in 
it , and yet be UNK as to what it is precisely . 
the central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping 
it ; and how can you certainly tell whether any water UNK from it , 
when , always , when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view 
of his spout , he is in a prodigious commotion , the water UNK 
all around him . and if at such times you should think that you really 
perceived drops of moisture in the spout , how do you know that they are 
not merely condensed from its vapour ; or how do you know that they 
are not those identical drops UNK lodged in the spout - hole 
fissure , which is UNK into the summit of the whale ' s head ? for 
even when tranquilly swimming through the mid - day sea in a calm , with 
his elevated hump sun - dried as a dromedary ' s in the desert ; even then , 
the whale always carries a small UNK of water on his head , as under 
a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with 
rain . 
nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the 
precise nature of the whale spout . it will not do for him to be peering 
into it , and putting his face in it . you cannot go with your UNK to 
this fountain and fill it , and bring it away . for even when coming into 
slight contact with the outer , vapoury shreds of the jet , which will 
often happen , your skin will UNK smart , from the UNK of 
the thing so touching it . and i know one , who coming into still closer 
contact with the spout , whether with some scientific object in view , 
or otherwise , i cannot say , the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm . 
wherefore , among whalemen , the spout is deemed poisonous ; they try to 
UNK it . another thing ; i have heard it said , and i do not much doubt 
it , that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes , it will blind you . 
the wisest thing the UNK can do then , it seems to me , is to let 
this deadly spout alone . 
still , we can UNK , even if we cannot prove and establish . my 
UNK is this : that the spout is nothing but mist . and besides 
other reasons , to this conclusion i am impelled , by considerations 
touching the great inherent dignity and UNK of the sperm whale ; 
i account him no common , shallow being , inasmuch as it is an undisputed 
fact that he is never found on soundings , or near shores ; all other 
whales sometimes are . he is both ponderous and profound . and i am 
convinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings , such as 
plato , UNK , the devil , jupiter , UNK , and so on , there always goes 
up a certain semi - visible steam , while in the act of thinking deep 
thoughts . while composing a little treatise on eternity , i had the 
curiosity to place a mirror before me ; and ere long saw UNK there , 
a curious involved UNK and UNK in the atmosphere over my 
head . the invariable moisture of my hair , while plunged in deep thought , 
after six cups of hot tea in my thin UNK UNK , of an august noon ; 
this seems an additional argument for the above supposition . 
and how UNK it raises our conceit of the mighty , misty monster , to 
behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea ; his vast , mild 
head UNK by a UNK of vapour , UNK by his incommunicable 
UNK , and that vapour - as you will sometimes see it - UNK 
by a UNK , as if heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts . 
for , d ' ye see , rainbows do not visit the clear air ; they only UNK 
vapour . and so , through all the thick UNK of the dim doubts in my 
mind , divine intuitions now and then shoot , UNK my fog with a 
heavenly ray . and for this i thank god ; for all have doubts ; many deny ; 
but doubts or UNK , few along with them , have intuitions . doubts 
of all things earthly , and intuitions of some things heavenly ; this 
UNK makes neither believer nor infidel , but makes a man who 
UNK them both with equal eye . 
chapter UNK . the tail . 
other UNK have UNK the UNK of the soft eye of the UNK , 
and the lovely plumage of the bird that never UNK ; less celestial , i 
celebrate a tail . 
reckoning the largest sized sperm whale ' s tail to begin at that point of 
the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man , it comprises 
upon its upper surface alone , an area of at least fifty square feet . the 
compact round body of its root expands into two broad , firm , flat palms 
or flukes , gradually UNK away to less than an inch in thickness . 
at the crotch or junction , these flukes slightly UNK , then sideways 
UNK from each other like wings , leaving a wide UNK between . in 
no living thing are the lines of beauty more UNK defined than in 
the crescentic borders of these flukes . at its utmost expansion in the 
full grown whale , the tail will considerably exceed twenty feet across . 
the entire member seems a dense UNK bed of welded sinews ; but cut 
into it , and you find that three distinct UNK UNK it : - upper , 
middle , and lower . the fibres in the upper and lower layers , are 
long and horizontal ; those of the middle one , very short , and running 
crosswise between the outside layers . this UNK structure , as much as 
anything else , imparts power to the tail . to the student of old roman 
walls , the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin 
course of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful 
relics of the antique , and which UNK contribute so much to the 
great strength of the masonry . 
but as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough , 
the whole bulk of the leviathan is UNK over with a warp and woof of 
UNK fibres and UNK , which passing on either side the UNK 
and running down into the flukes , UNK blend with them , and 
largely contribute to their might ; so that in the tail the UNK 
measureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point . 
could annihilation occur to matter , this were the thing to do it . 
nor does this - its amazing strength , at all tend to cripple the graceful 
UNK of its motions ; where UNK of ease undulates through 
a UNK of power . on the contrary , those motions derive their most 
appalling beauty from it . real strength never UNK beauty or UNK , 
but it often UNK it ; and in everything UNK beautiful , 
strength has much to do with the magic . take away the tied tendons that 
all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved hercules , and its 
charm would be gone . as devout UNK lifted the linen sheet from the 
naked corpse of UNK , he was UNK with the massive chest of the 
man , that seemed as a roman triumphal arch . when UNK paints even god 
the father in human form , mark what robustness is there . and whatever 
they may UNK of the divine love in the son , the soft , curled , 
UNK italian pictures , in which his idea has been most 
successfully UNK ; these pictures , so UNK as they are of all 
UNK , hint nothing of any power , but the mere UNK , UNK 
one of UNK and UNK , which on all hands it is UNK , form 
the peculiar practical virtues of his teachings . 
such is the subtle elasticity of the organ i treat of , that whether 
wielded in UNK , or in earnest , or in anger , whatever be the mood it 
be in , its UNK are invariably marked by exceeding grace . therein no 
fairy ' s arm can UNK it . 
five great motions are peculiar to it . first , when used as a fin for 
UNK ; second , when used as a UNK in battle ; third , in sweeping ; 
fourth , in UNK ; fifth , in UNK flukes . 
first : being horizontal in its position , the leviathan ' s tail acts in 
a different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures . it never 
UNK . in man or fish , wriggling is a sign of inferiority . to the 
whale , his tail is the sole means of UNK . scroll - wise coiled 
forwards beneath the body , and then rapidly sprung backwards , it is this 
which gives that singular darting , leaping motion to the monster when 
furiously swimming . his side - fins only serve to steer by . 
second : it is a little significant , that while one sperm whale only 
fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw , nevertheless , in his 
UNK with man , he chiefly and UNK uses his tail . in 
striking at a boat , he swiftly curves away his flukes from it , and the 
blow is only inflicted by the UNK . if it be made in the unobstructed 
air , especially if it descend to its mark , the stroke is then simply 
irresistible . no ribs of man or boat can withstand it . your only 
salvation lies in UNK it ; but if it comes sideways through the 
opposing water , then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the whale 
boat , and the elasticity of its UNK , a cracked rib or a dashed 
plank or two , a sort of UNK in the side , is generally the most 
serious result . these submerged side blows are so often received in the 
fishery , that they are accounted mere child ' s play . some one UNK off 
a frock , and the hole is stopped . 
third : i cannot UNK it , but it seems to me , that in the whale 
the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail ; for in this respect 
there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the UNK of the 
elephant ' s trunk . this delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of 
sweeping , when in UNK UNK the whale with a certain soft 
UNK moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface 
of the sea ; and if he feel but a sailor ' s whisker , woe to that sailor , 
whiskers and all . what UNK there is in that preliminary touch ! 
had this tail any UNK power , i should straightway bethink me of 
UNK ' elephant that so frequented the flower - market , and with 
low salutations presented UNK to UNK , and then UNK their 
zones . on more accounts than one , a pity it is that the whale does not 
possess this UNK virtue in his tail ; for i have heard of yet 
another elephant , that when wounded in the fight , curved round his trunk 
and extracted the dart . 
fourth : stealing UNK upon the whale in the fancied security of the 
middle of solitary seas , you find him UNK from the vast UNK 
of his dignity , and UNK - like , he plays on the ocean as if it were a 
hearth . but still you see his power in his play . the broad palms of 
his tail are flirted high into the air ; then UNK the surface , the 
UNK UNK UNK for miles . you would almost think a great 
gun had been discharged ; and if you noticed the light UNK of vapour 
from the spiracle at his other extremity , you would think that that was 
the smoke from the touch - hole . 
fifth : as in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukes 
lie considerably below the level of his back , they are then completely 
out of sight beneath the surface ; but when he is about to plunge into 
the deeps , his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are 
tossed erect in the air , and so remain vibrating a moment , till they 
downwards shoot out of view . excepting the sublime breach - somewhere 
else to be described - this UNK of the whale ' s flukes is perhaps the 
UNK sight to be seen in all animated nature . out of the bottomless 
profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the 
highest heaven . so in dreams , have i seen majestic satan thrusting forth 
his tormented colossal claw from the flame baltic of hell . but in 
gazing at such scenes , it is all in all what mood you are in ; if in 
the UNK , the devils will occur to you ; if in that of UNK , the 
UNK . standing at the mast - head of my ship during a sunrise that 
UNK sky and sea , i once saw a large herd of whales in the east , 
all heading towards the sun , and for a moment vibrating in concert with 
peaked flukes . as it seemed to me at the time , such a grand embodiment 
of adoration of the gods was never beheld , even in UNK , the home of 
the fire UNK . as UNK UNK UNK of the african 
elephant , i then UNK of the whale , pronouncing him the most devout 
of all beings . for according to king UNK , the military elephants of 
antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the 
profoundest silence . 
the chance comparison in this chapter , between the whale and the 
elephant , so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk 
of the other are concerned , should not tend to place those two 
opposite organs on an equality , much less the creatures to which they 
respectively belong . for as the mightiest elephant is but a UNK 
to leviathan , so , compared with leviathan ' s tail , his trunk is but the 
stalk of a UNK . the most direful blow from the elephant ' s trunk were as 
the playful tap of a fan , compared with the measureless crush and UNK 
of the sperm whale ' s ponderous flukes , which in repeated instances have 
one after the other hurled entire boats with all their oars and crews 
into the air , very much as an indian juggler UNK his balls . * 
* though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale 
and the elephant is preposterous , inasmuch as in that particular the 
elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to 
the elephant ; nevertheless , there are not wanting some points of curious 
similitude ; among these is the spout . it is well known that the elephant 
will often draw up water or dust in his trunk , and then elevating it , 
jet it forth in a stream . 
the more i consider this mighty tail , the more do i UNK my UNK 
to express it . at times there are gestures in it , which , though they 
would well grace the hand of man , remain wholly inexplicable . in an 
extensive herd , so remarkable , occasionally , are these mystic gestures , 
that i have heard hunters who have declared them akin to free - mason 
signs and UNK ; that the whale , indeed , by these UNK 
UNK conversed with the world . nor are there wanting other 
motions of the whale in his general body , full of strangeness , and 
unaccountable to his most experienced UNK . dissect him how i may , 
then , i but go skin deep ; i know him not , and never will . but if i know 
not even the tail of this whale , how understand his head ? much more , 
how comprehend his face , when face he has none ? thou shalt see my back 
parts , my tail , he seems to say , but my face shall not be seen . but i 
cannot completely make out his back parts ; and hint what he will about 
his face , i say again he has no face . 
chapter UNK . the grand UNK . 
the long and narrow UNK of malacca , extending south - eastward from 
the territories of UNK , forms the most UNK point of all asia . 
in a continuous line from that UNK stretch the long islands of 
sumatra , java , UNK , and timor ; which , with many others , form a 
vast mole , or rampart , lengthwise connecting asia with UNK , 
and dividing the long UNK indian ocean from the thickly studded 
oriental archipelagoes . this rampart is pierced by several sally - ports 
for the convenience of ships and whales ; conspicuous among which are the 
straits of sunda and malacca . by the straits of sunda , chiefly , vessels 
bound to china from the west , emerge into the china seas . 
those narrow straits of sunda divide sumatra from java ; and standing 
midway in that vast rampart of islands , UNK by that bold green 
promontory , known to seamen as java head ; they not a little correspond 
to the central UNK opening into some vast walled empire : and 
considering the UNK UNK of spices , and UNK , and UNK , 
and gold , and ivory , with which the thousand islands of that oriental 
sea are UNK , it seems a significant provision of nature , that such 
treasures , by the very formation of the land , should at least bear the 
appearance , however UNK , of being UNK from the all - grasping 
western world . the shores of the straits of sunda are unsupplied 
with those domineering UNK which guard the UNK to the 
mediterranean , the baltic , and the propontis . unlike the UNK , these 
UNK do not demand the UNK homage of lowered top - sails from 
the endless procession of ships before the wind , which for centuries 
past , by night and by day , have passed between the islands of sumatra 
and java , freighted with the costliest UNK of the east . but while 
they freely UNK a UNK like this , they do by no means renounce 
their claim to more solid tribute . 
time out of mind the piratical UNK of the malays , lurking among 
the low shaded UNK and UNK of sumatra , have sallied out upon the 
vessels sailing through the straits , fiercely demanding tribute at the 
point of their spears . though by the repeated bloody UNK they 
have received at the hands of european cruisers , the UNK of these 
UNK has of late been somewhat UNK ; yet , even at the present 
day , we occasionally hear of english and american vessels , which , in 
those waters , have been remorselessly boarded and UNK . 
with a fair , fresh wind , the pequod was now drawing nigh to these 
straits ; ahab UNK to pass through them into the javan sea , and 
thence , cruising UNK , over waters known to be frequented here and 
there by the sperm whale , sweep UNK by the UNK islands , and 
gain the far coast of japan , in time for the great whaling season there . 
by these means , the circumnavigating pequod would sweep almost all the 
known sperm whale cruising grounds of the world , previous to descending 
upon the line in the pacific ; where ahab , though everywhere else foiled 
in his pursuit , firmly counted upon giving battle to moby dick , in the 
sea he was most known to frequent ; and at a season when he might most 
reasonably be presumed to be UNK it . 
but how now ? in this zoned quest , does ahab touch no land ? does his crew 
drink air ? surely , he will stop for water . nay . for a long time , now , 
the circus - running sun has UNK within his fiery ring , and needs 
no UNK but what ' s in himself . so ahab . mark this , too , in the 
whaler . while other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff , to be 
transferred to foreign wharves ; the world - wandering whale - ship carries 
no cargo but herself and crew , their weapons and their wants . she has a 
whole lake ' s contents bottled in her ample hold . she is ballasted with 
UNK ; not altogether with UNK pig - lead and UNK . she 
carries years ' water in her . clear old prime nantucket water ; which , 
when three years afloat , the nantucketer , in the pacific , prefers to 
drink before the UNK fluid , but yesterday UNK off in casks , from 
the peruvian or indian streams . hence it is , that , while other ships may 
have gone to china from new york , and back again , touching at a score 
of ports , the whale - ship , in all that interval , may not have sighted 
one grain of soil ; her crew having seen no man but floating seamen like 
themselves . so that did you carry them the news that another flood had 
come ; they would only answer - " well , boys , here ' s the ark ! " 
now , as many sperm whales had been captured off the western coast of 
java , in the near vicinity of the straits of sunda ; indeed , as most of 
the ground , roundabout , was generally recognised by the fishermen as an 
excellent spot for cruising ; therefore , as the pequod gained more 
and more upon java head , the look - outs were repeatedly hailed , and 
UNK to keep wide awake . but though the green UNK cliffs of the 
land soon loomed on the starboard bow , and with UNK nostrils 
the fresh UNK was snuffed in the air , yet not a single jet was 
descried . almost UNK all thought of falling in with any game 
hereabouts , the ship had well nigh entered the straits , when the 
customary cheering cry was heard from aloft , and ere long a spectacle of 
singular UNK UNK us . 
but here be it UNK , that owing to the UNK activity with which 
of late they have been hunted over all four oceans , the sperm whales , 
instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached companies , as in 
former times , are now frequently met with in extensive herds , sometimes 
embracing so great a multitude , that it would almost seem as if 
numerous nations of them had sworn solemn UNK and UNK for mutual 
UNK and protection . to this UNK of the sperm whale into 
such immense UNK , may be imputed the circumstance that even in the 
best cruising grounds , you may now sometimes sail for weeks and months 
together , without being UNK by a single spout ; and then be suddenly 
UNK by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands . 
broad on both bows , at the distance of some two or three miles , and 
forming a great semicircle , embracing one half of the level horizon , 
a continuous chain of whale - jets were up - playing and sparkling in the 
noon - day air . unlike the straight perpendicular twin - jets of the right 
whale , which , dividing at top , fall over in two branches , like the UNK 
drooping boughs of a UNK , the single forward - slanting spout of the 
sperm whale presents a thick curled UNK of white mist , continually 
rising and falling away to leeward . 
seen from the pequod ' s deck , then , as she would rise on a high hill of 
the sea , this host of vapoury spouts , UNK curling up into the 
air , and beheld through a blending atmosphere of UNK haze , showed 
like the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense UNK , descried 
of a UNK UNK morning , by some horseman on a height . 
as marching armies approaching an UNK defile in the mountains , 
accelerate their march , all eagerness to place that perilous passage in 
their rear , and once more expand in comparative security upon the plain ; 
even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward through 
the straits ; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle , and 
swimming on , in one solid , but still crescentic centre . 
crowding all sail the pequod pressed after them ; the harpooneers 
handling their weapons , and loudly cheering from the heads of their 
yet suspended boats . if the wind only held , little doubt had they , that 
chased through these straits of sunda , the vast host would only UNK 
into the oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their 
number . and who could tell whether , in that UNK UNK , moby 
dick himself might not temporarily be swimming , like the worshipped 
white - elephant in the coronation procession of the siamese ! so with 
stun - sail piled on stun - sail , we sailed along , driving these leviathans 
before us ; when , of a sudden , the voice of tashtego was heard , loudly 
directing attention to something in our wake . 
corresponding to the UNK in our van , we beheld another in our rear . 
it seemed formed of detached white vapours , rising and falling something 
like the spouts of the whales ; only they did not so completely come and 
go ; for they constantly hovered , without finally disappearing . UNK 
his glass at this sight , ahab quickly revolved in his pivot - hole , 
crying , " aloft there , and rig whips and buckets to wet the 
sails ; - malays , sir , and after us ! " 
as if too long lurking behind the headlands , till the pequod should 
fairly have entered the straits , these UNK UNK were now in hot 
pursuit , to make up for their over - cautious delay . but when the swift 
pequod , with a fresh leading wind , was herself in hot chase ; how very 
kind of these tawny UNK to assist in UNK her on to 
her own chosen pursuit , - mere riding - whips and UNK to her , that they 
were . as with glass under arm , ahab to - and - fro paced the deck ; in his 
forward turn beholding the monsters he chased , and in the after one the 
UNK pirates chasing him ; some such fancy as the above seemed 
his . and when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in 
which the ship was then sailing , and UNK him that through that 
gate lay the route to his vengeance , and beheld , how that through that 
same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end ; 
and not only that , but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and 
inhuman UNK devils were infernally cheering him on with their 
curses ; - when all these conceits had passed through his brain , ahab ' s 
brow was left gaunt and ribbed , like the black sand beach after some 
stormy tide has been UNK it , without being able to drag the firm 
thing from its place . 
but thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew ; and 
when , after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern , the 
pequod at last shot by the vivid green UNK point on the sumatra 
side , UNK at last upon the broad waters beyond ; then , the 
harpooneers seemed more to UNK that the swift whales had been gaining 
upon the ship , than to rejoice that the ship had so UNK gained 
upon the malays . but still driving on in the wake of the whales , at 
length they seemed UNK their speed ; gradually the ship neared them ; 
and the wind now dying away , word was passed to spring to the boats . but 
no sooner did the herd , by some presumed wonderful instinct of the sperm 
whale , become UNK of the three keels that were after them , - though 
as yet a mile in their rear , - than they rallied again , and forming 
in close UNK and battalions , so that their spouts all looked like 
flashing lines of stacked UNK , moved on with UNK velocity . 
stripped to our UNK and drawers , we sprang to the white - ash , and 
after several hours ' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase , 
when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave UNK 
token that they were now at last under the influence of that strange 
perplexity of inert UNK , which , when the fishermen perceive 
it in the whale , they say he is gallied . the compact martial columns 
in which they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming , were now 
broken up in one measureless UNK ; and like king porus ' elephants in the 
indian battle with alexander , they seemed going mad with consternation . 
in all directions UNK in vast irregular circles , and UNK 
swimming hither and thither , by their short thick spoutings , they 
plainly betrayed their UNK of panic . this was still more 
strangely evinced by those of their number , who , completely UNK 
as it were , helplessly floated like water - UNK dismantled ships on the 
sea . had these leviathans been but a UNK of simple sheep , pursued over 
the pasture by three fierce wolves , they could not possibly have evinced 
such UNK dismay . but this occasional timidity is UNK 
of almost all UNK creatures . though UNK together in tens of 
thousands , the lion - maned UNK of the west have fled before a 
solitary horseman . witness , too , all human beings , how when UNK 
together in the sheepfold of a UNK ' s pit , they will , at the 
slightest alarm of fire , rush helter - skelter for the outlets , crowding , 
trampling , jamming , and remorselessly dashing each other to death . best , 
therefore , withhold any amazement at the strangely gallied whales 
before us , for there is no UNK of the beasts of the earth which is not 
infinitely UNK by the madness of men . 
though many of the whales , as has been said , were in violent motion , 
yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor 
retreated , but collectively remained in one place . as is customary in 
those cases , the boats at once separated , each making for some one 
lone whale on the UNK of the shoal . in about three minutes ' time , 
queequeg ' s harpoon was flung ; the stricken fish darted blinding spray 
in our faces , and then running away with us like light , steered straight 
for the heart of the herd . though such a movement on the part of the 
whale struck under such circumstances , is in no wise unprecedented ; and 
indeed is almost always more or less anticipated ; yet does it present 
one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery . for as the swift 
monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal , you bid 
adieu to UNK life and only exist in a delirious UNK . 
as , blind and deaf , the whale plunged forward , as if by sheer power of 
speed to rid himself of the iron UNK that had fastened to him ; as we 
thus tore a white gash in the sea , on all sides UNK as we flew , by 
the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us ; our beset boat was 
like a ship UNK by ice - isles in a tempest , and striving to steer 
through their complicated channels and straits , knowing not at what 
moment it may be locked in and crushed . 
but not a bit UNK , queequeg steered us UNK ; now UNK off 
from this monster directly across our route in advance ; now UNK away 
from that , whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead , while all the 
time , starbuck stood up in the bows , lance in hand , pricking out of our 
way whatever whales he could reach by short darts , for there was no time 
to make long ones . nor were the oarsmen quite idle , though their wonted 
duty was now altogether UNK with . they chiefly attended to the 
shouting part of the business . " out of the way , commodore ! " cried one , 
to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface , 
and for an instant threatened to swamp us . " hard down with your tail , 
there ! " cried a second to another , which , close to our gunwale , seemed 
calmly UNK himself with his own fan - like extremity . 
all whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances , originally invented 
by the nantucket indians , called UNK . two thick squares of wood 
of equal size are stoutly clenched together , so that they cross each 
other ' s grain at right angles ; a line of considerable length is then 
attached to the middle of this block , and the other end of the line 
being UNK , it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon . it is chiefly 
among gallied whales that this drugg is used . for then , more whales 
are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time . but sperm 
whales are not every day encountered ; while you may , then , you must 
kill all you can . and if you cannot kill them all at once , you must wing 
them , so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure . hence it 
is , that at times like these the drugg , comes into UNK . our boat 
was furnished with three of them . the first and second were successfully 
darted , and we saw the whales UNK running off , UNK by the 
enormous sidelong resistance of the towing drugg . they were cramped like 
UNK with the chain and ball . but upon flinging the third , in the 
act of tossing overboard the clumsy wooden block , it caught under one 
of the UNK of the boat , and in an instant tore it out and carried it 
away , dropping the oarsman in the boat ' s bottom as the seat slid from 
under him . on both sides the sea came in at the wounded planks , but we 
stuffed two or three drawers and UNK in , and so stopped the leaks for 
the time . 
it had been next to impossible to dart these drugged - harpoons , were 
it not that as we advanced into the herd , our whale ' s way greatly 
diminished ; moreover , that as we went still further and further from the 
circumference of commotion , the direful UNK seemed waning . so that 
when at last the jerking harpoon drew out , and the towing whale sideways 
UNK ; then , with the tapering force of his UNK UNK , we 
glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal , as if 
from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake . here 
the storms in the roaring UNK between the outermost whales , were heard 
but not felt . in this central expanse the sea presented that smooth 
satin - like surface , called a UNK , produced by the subtle moisture 
thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods . yes , we were now 
in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every 
commotion . and still in the distracted distance we beheld the UNK of 
the outer concentric circles , and saw successive pods of whales , eight 
or ten in each , swiftly going round and round , like UNK spans of 
horses in a ring ; and so closely shoulder to shoulder , that a UNK 
circus - rider might easily have over - arched the middle ones , and so have 
gone round on their backs . owing to the density of the crowd of UNK 
whales , more immediately surrounding the UNK axis of the herd , no 
possible chance of escape was at present afforded us . we must watch for 
a breach in the living wall that UNK us in ; the wall that had only 
admitted us in order to shut us up . keeping at the centre of the lake , 
we were occasionally visited by small tame cows and calves ; the women 
and children of this UNK host . 
now , inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving 
outer circles , and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in 
any one of those circles , the entire area at this juncture , embraced by 
the whole multitude , must have contained at least two or three square 
miles . at any rate - though indeed such a test at such a time might be 
UNK - spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that 
seemed playing up almost from the UNK of the horizon . i mention this 
circumstance , because , as if the cows and calves had been purposely 
locked up in this innermost fold ; and as if the wide extent of the 
herd had hitherto UNK them from learning the precise cause of its 
stopping ; or , possibly , being so young , unsophisticated , and every way 
innocent and UNK ; however it may have been , these smaller 
whales - now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the 
lake - evinced a wondrous UNK and confidence , or else a still 
UNK panic which it was impossible not to marvel at . like household 
dogs they came UNK round us , right up to our gunwales , and 
touching them ; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly 
UNK them . queequeg UNK their foreheads ; starbuck UNK 
their backs with his lance ; but fearful of the consequences , for the 
time UNK from darting it . 
but far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface , another and still 
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side . for , suspended 
in those watery vaults , floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the 
whales , and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to 
become mothers . the lake , as i have hinted , was to a considerable depth 
exceedingly transparent ; and as human infants while suckling will calmly 
and UNK gaze away from the breast , as if leading two different 
lives at the time ; and while yet drawing mortal UNK , be still 
UNK UNK upon some unearthly reminiscence ; - even so did the 
young of these whales seem looking up towards us , but not at us , as if 
we were but a bit of UNK in their new - born sight . floating on their 
sides , the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us . one of these little 
infants , that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a day old , might 
have measured some UNK feet in length , and some six feet in 
girth . he was a little UNK ; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet 
recovered from that UNK position it had so UNK occupied in the 
maternal UNK ; where , tail to head , and all ready for the final 
spring , the UNK whale lies bent like a tartar ' s bow . the delicate 
side - fins , and the palms of his flukes , still UNK retained the 
plaited UNK appearance of a baby ' s ears newly arrived from foreign 
parts . 
" line ! line ! " cried queequeg , looking over the gunwale ; " him fast ! him 
fast ! - who line him ! who struck ? - two whale ; one big , one little ! " 
" what UNK ye , man ? " cried starbuck . 
" look - e here , " said queequeg , pointing down . 
as when the stricken whale , that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of 
fathoms of rope ; as , after deep sounding , he floats up again , and shows 
the slackened curling line UNK rising and spiralling towards the 
air ; so now , starbuck saw long coils of the UNK cord of UNK 
leviathan , by which the young cub seemed still UNK to its dam . not 
seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase , this natural line , with 
the maternal end loose , becomes entangled with the hempen one , so that 
the cub is thereby UNK . some of the subtlest secrets of the seas 
seemed divulged to us in this enchanted UNK . we saw young leviathan 
UNK in the deep . * 
* the sperm whale , as with all other species of the leviathan , but unlike 
most other fish , breeds UNK at all seasons ; after a UNK 
which may probably be set down at nine months , producing but one at a 
time ; though in some few known instances giving birth to an UNK and 
UNK : - a contingency provided for in suckling by two UNK , curiously 
UNK , one on each side of the UNK ; but the UNK themselves 
UNK upwards from that . when by chance these precious parts in a 
nursing whale are cut by the hunter ' s lance , the mother ' s UNK milk 
and blood UNK UNK the sea for rods . the milk is very sweet 
and rich ; it has been tasted by man ; it might do well with UNK . 
when UNK with mutual esteem , the whales UNK more UNK . 
and thus , though surrounded by circle upon circle of UNK 
and affrights , did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and 
fearlessly UNK in all peaceful UNK ; yea , serenely UNK 
in UNK and delight . but even so , amid the UNK atlantic of 
my being , do i myself still for ever centrally UNK in mute calm ; and 
while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me , deep down and 
deep inland there i still UNK me in eternal mildness of joy . 
meanwhile , as we thus lay UNK , the occasional sudden frantic 
spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats , 
still engaged in UNK the whales on the UNK of the host ; or 
possibly carrying on the war within the first circle , where abundance of 
room and some convenient retreats were afforded them . but the sight 
of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro 
across the circles , was nothing to what at last met our eyes . it is 
sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly UNK 
and alert , to seek to UNK him , as it were , by UNK or 
UNK his gigantic tail - UNK . it is done by darting a short - handled 
cutting - spade , to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again . 
a whale wounded ( as we afterwards learned ) in this part , but not 
effectually , as it seemed , had broken away from the boat , carrying along 
with him half of the harpoon line ; and in the extraordinary agony of 
the wound , he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the lone 
mounted desperado UNK , at the battle of saratoga , carrying dismay 
wherever he went . 
but agonizing as was the wound of this whale , and an appalling spectacle 
enough , any way ; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to 
inspire the rest of the herd , was owing to a cause which at first the 
intervening distance obscured from us . but at length we perceived that 
by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery , this whale had 
become entangled in the harpoon - line that he towed ; he had also run 
away with the cutting - spade in him ; and while the free end of the rope 
attached to that weapon , had UNK caught in the coils of the 
harpoon - line round his tail , the cutting - spade itself had worked loose 
from his flesh . so that tormented to madness , he was now churning 
through the water , violently UNK with his flexible tail , and 
tossing the keen spade about him , UNK and murdering his own 
comrades . 
this terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their 
stationary fright . first , the whales forming the margin of our lake 
began to crowd a little , and tumble against each other , as if lifted 
by half spent billows from afar ; then the lake itself began faintly to 
heave and swell ; the UNK bridal - chambers and UNK UNK ; 
in more and more contracting UNK the whales in the more central 
circles began to swim in UNK clusters . yes , the long calm was 
UNK . a low advancing hum was soon heard ; and then like to the 
tumultuous masses of block - ice when the great river UNK breaks up in 
spring , the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their inner centre , 
as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain . instantly starbuck 
and queequeg changed places ; starbuck taking the stern . 
" oars ! oars ! " he intensely whispered , seizing the helm - " UNK your 
oars , and clutch your souls , now ! my god , men , stand by ! UNK him off , 
you queequeg - the whale there ! - prick him ! - hit him ! stand up - stand 
up , and stay so ! spring , men - pull , men ; never mind their backs - scrape 
them ! - scrape away ! " 
the boat was now all but jammed between two vast black UNK , leaving a 
narrow dardanelles between their long lengths . but by desperate endeavor 
we at last shot into a temporary opening ; then giving way rapidly , 
and at the same time earnestly watching for another UNK . after many 
similar hair - breadth UNK , we at last swiftly glided into what had 
just been one of the outer circles , but now crossed by random whales , 
all violently making for one centre . this lucky salvation was UNK 
purchased by the loss of queequeg ' s hat , who , while standing in the bows 
to prick the fugitive whales , had his hat taken clean from his head by 
the air - UNK made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad flukes close 
by . 
riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was , it soon 
resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement ; for having 
UNK together at last in one dense body , they then UNK their 
UNK flight with UNK fleetness . further pursuit was useless ; but 
the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales 
might be dropped astern , and likewise to secure one which flask had 
killed and UNK . the waif is a UNK pole , two or three of which 
are carried by every boat ; and which , when additional game is at hand , 
are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale , both to 
mark its place on the sea , and also as token of prior possession , should 
the boats of any other ship draw near . 
the result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious 
saying in the fishery , - the more whales the less fish . of all the 
drugged whales only one was captured . the rest contrived to escape for 
the time , but only to be taken , as will hereafter be seen , by some other 
craft than the pequod . 
chapter UNK . schools and schoolmasters . 
the previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of sperm 
whales , and there was also then given the probable cause UNK those 
vast UNK . 
now , though such great bodies are at times encountered , yet , as must 
have been seen , even at the present day , small detached bands are 
occasionally observed , embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each . 
such bands are known as schools . they generally are of two sorts ; those 
composed almost entirely of females , and those mustering none but young 
vigorous males , or bulls , as they are familiarly designated . 
in UNK UNK upon the school of females , you invariably see a 
male of full grown magnitude , but not old ; who , upon any alarm , UNK 
his UNK by falling in the rear and covering the flight of his 
ladies . in truth , this gentleman is a luxurious ottoman , swimming about 
over the watery world , UNK accompanied by all the UNK 
and UNK of the harem . the contrast between this ottoman and 
his concubines is striking ; because , while he is always of the largest 
leviathanic proportions , the ladies , even at full growth , are not 
more than one - third of the bulk of an average - sized male . they are 
comparatively delicate , indeed ; i dare say , not to exceed half a UNK 
yards round the waist . nevertheless , it cannot be denied , that upon the 
whole they are hereditarily entitled to UNK . 
it is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent 
UNK . like UNK , they are for ever on the move in leisurely 
search of variety . you meet them on the line in time for the full flower 
of the equatorial feeding season , having just returned , perhaps , from 
spending the summer in the northern seas , and so cheating summer of all 
UNK weariness and warmth . by the time they have lounged up and 
down the UNK of the equator awhile , they start for the oriental 
waters in UNK of the cool season there , and so UNK the other 
UNK temperature of the year . 
when serenely advancing on one of these UNK , if any strange 
suspicious sights are seen , my lord whale keeps a UNK eye on his 
interesting family . should any unwarrantably UNK young leviathan coming 
that way , presume to draw UNK close to one of the ladies , 
with what prodigious fury the bashaw UNK him , and UNK him away ! 
high times , indeed , if UNK young UNK like him are to be 
permitted to invade the UNK of domestic bliss ; though do what the 
bashaw will , he cannot keep the most notorious lothario out of his bed ; 
for , alas ! all fish bed in common . as ashore , the ladies often cause the 
most terrible UNK among their rival UNK ; just so with the whales , 
who sometimes come to deadly battle , and all for love . they UNK with 
their long lower jaws , sometimes UNK them together , and so striving 
for the supremacy like UNK that UNK UNK their UNK . not 
a few are captured having the deep UNK of these encounters , - UNK 
heads , broken teeth , UNK fins ; and in some instances , wrenched and 
UNK mouths . 
but supposing the UNK of domestic bliss to betake himself away at 
the first rush of the harem ' s lord , then is it very UNK to watch 
that lord . gently he UNK his vast bulk among them again and 
UNK there awhile , still in UNK vicinity to young lothario , 
like pious solomon UNK worshipping among his thousand concubines . 
granting other whales to be in sight , the fishermen will seldom give 
chase to one of these grand turks ; for these grand turks are too UNK 
of their strength , and hence their unctuousness is small . as for the 
sons and the daughters they beget , why , those sons and daughters must 
take care of themselves ; at least , with only the maternal help . for 
like certain other UNK roving lovers that might be named , my lord 
whale has no taste for the nursery , however much for the bower ; and so , 
being a great traveller , he leaves his anonymous babies all over the 
world ; every baby an UNK . in good time , nevertheless , as the UNK 
of youth declines ; as years and UNK UNK ; as reflection UNK 
her solemn pauses ; in short , as a general UNK UNK the UNK 
turk ; then a love of ease and virtue UNK the love for UNK ; our 
ottoman enters upon the UNK , UNK , UNK stage of life , 
UNK , UNK the harem , and grown to an UNK , sulky old 
soul , goes about all alone among the meridians and UNK saying his 
prayers , and warning each young leviathan from his UNK errors . 
now , as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school , so 
is the lord and master of that school technically known as the 
schoolmaster . it is therefore not in strict character , however admirably 
UNK , that after going to school himself , he should then go abroad 
UNK not what he learned there , but the UNK of it . his title , 
schoolmaster , would very naturally seem derived from the name bestowed 
upon the harem itself , but some have UNK that the man who first 
thus entitled this sort of ottoman whale , must have read the memoirs of 
UNK , and informed himself what sort of a country - schoolmaster that 
famous frenchman was in his younger days , and what was the nature of 
those UNK UNK he UNK into some of his UNK . 
the same UNK and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale 
UNK himself in his advancing years , is true of all aged sperm 
whales . almost universally , a lone whale - as a solitary leviathan is 
called - proves an ancient one . like venerable moss - bearded UNK UNK , 
he will have no one near him but nature herself ; and her he takes to 
wife in the wilderness of waters , and the best of wives she is , though 
she keeps so many moody secrets . 
the schools composing none but young and vigorous males , previously 
mentioned , offer a strong contrast to the harem schools . for while 
those female whales are UNK timid , the young males , or 
forty - barrel - bulls , as they call them , are by far the most pugnacious 
of all leviathans , and UNK the most dangerous to encounter ; 
excepting those wondrous grey - headed , grizzled whales , sometimes met , 
and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a UNK UNK . 
the forty - barrel - bull schools are larger than the harem schools . like 
a mob of young UNK , they are full of fight , fun , and UNK , 
tumbling round the world at such a reckless , rollicking rate , that no 
prudent UNK would insure them any more than he would a riotous 
lad at UNK or UNK . they soon relinquish this UNK though , 
and when about three - fourths grown , break up , and separately go about in 
quest of UNK , that is , UNK . 
another point of difference between the male and female schools is 
still more UNK of the UNK . say you strike a 
forty - barrel - bull - poor devil ! all his comrades quit him . but strike 
a member of the harem school , and her companions swim around her with 
every token of concern , sometimes lingering so near her and so long , as 
themselves to fall a prey . 
chapter UNK . fast - fish and loose - fish . 
the allusion to the waif and waif - poles in the last chapter but one , 
necessitates some account of the laws and UNK of the whale 
fishery , of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge . 
it frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company , 
a whale may be struck by one vessel , then escape , and be finally killed 
and captured by another vessel ; and herein are indirectly comprised 
many UNK UNK , all partaking of this one grand feature . for 
example , - after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale , 
the body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm ; and 
UNK far away to leeward , be UNK by a second whaler , who , in a 
calm , snugly UNK it alongside , without risk of life or line . thus 
the most UNK and violent UNK would often UNK between 
the fishermen , were there not some written or unwritten , universal , 
undisputed law applicable to all cases . 
perhaps the only UNK whaling code UNK by UNK 
UNK , was that of holland . it was UNK by the states - general in 
a . d . UNK . but though no other nation has ever had any written whaling 
law , yet the american fishermen have been their own UNK and 
lawyers in this matter . they have provided a system which for UNK 
comprehensiveness surpasses justinian ' s UNK and the by - laws of 
the chinese society for the UNK of UNK with other people ' s 
business . yes ; these laws might be UNK on a queen anne ' s UNK , 
or the barb of a harpoon , and worn round the neck , so small are they . 
i . a fast - fish belongs to the party fast to it . 
ii . a loose - fish is fair game for anybody who can UNK catch it . 
but what plays the mischief with this UNK code is the admirable 
UNK of it , which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to 
UNK it . 
first : what is a fast - fish ? alive or dead a fish is technically fast , 
when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat , by any medium at all 
UNK by the UNK or UNK , - a mast , an oar , a nine - inch 
cable , a UNK wire , or a strand of UNK , it is all the same . 
likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif , or any other 
recognised symbol of possession ; so long as the party UNK it plainly 
evince their UNK at any time to take it alongside , as well as their 
intention so to do . 
these are scientific commentaries ; but the commentaries of the whalemen 
themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder UNK - the 
UNK - upon - UNK of the UNK . true , among the more upright and 
honourable whalemen UNK are always made for peculiar cases , 
where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim 
possession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party . but 
others are by no means so UNK . 
some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale - UNK UNK 
in england , wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of 
a whale in the northern seas ; and when indeed they ( the plaintiffs ) had 
succeeded in harpooning the fish ; they were at last , through peril of 
their lives , obliged to UNK not only their lines , but their boat 
itself . UNK the defendants ( the crew of another ship ) came up 
with the whale , struck , killed , seized , and finally UNK it 
before the very eyes of the plaintiffs . and when those defendants were 
UNK with , their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs ' 
teeth , and assured them that by way of UNK to the deed he had done , 
he would now retain their line , harpoons , and boat , which had remained 
attached to the whale at the time of the UNK . wherefore the 
plaintiffs now UNK for the recovery of the value of their whale , line , 
harpoons , and boat . 
mr . erskine was counsel for the defendants ; lord ellenborough was 
the judge . in the course of the UNK , the witty erskine went on 
to UNK his position , by UNK to a UNK UNK . UNK . 
case , wherein a gentleman , after in vain trying to UNK his wife ' s 
viciousness , had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life ; but in 
the course of years , UNK of that step , he UNK an action to 
UNK possession of her . erskine was on the other side ; and he 
then UNK it by saying , that though the gentleman had originally 
harpooned the lady , and had once had her fast , and only by reason of the 
great UNK of her plunging viciousness , had at last abandoned her ; yet 
abandon her he did , so that she became a loose - fish ; and therefore 
when a subsequent gentleman re - harpooned her , the lady then became that 
subsequent gentleman ' s property , along with whatever harpoon might have 
been found sticking in her . 
now in the present case erskine UNK that the examples of the whale 
and the lady were UNK illustrative of each other . 
these UNK , and the counter UNK , being duly heard , the very 
learned judge in set terms decided , to UNK , - that as for the boat , he 
UNK it to the plaintiffs , because they had merely abandoned it 
to save their lives ; but that with regard to the UNK whale , 
harpoons , and line , they belonged to the defendants ; the whale , because 
it was a loose - fish at the time of the final capture ; and the harpoons 
and line because when the fish made off with them , it ( the fish ) 
UNK a property in those articles ; and hence anybody who afterwards 
took the fish had a right to them . now the defendants afterwards took 
the fish ; UNK , the UNK articles were theirs . 
a common man looking at this UNK of the very learned judge , might 
possibly object to it . but UNK up to the UNK rock of the 
matter , the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws 
previously quoted , and applied and elucidated by lord ellenborough in 
the above cited case ; these two laws touching fast - fish and loose - fish , 
i say , will , on reflection , be found the UNK of all human 
UNK ; for notwithstanding its complicated UNK of sculpture , 
the temple of the law , like the temple of the philistines , has but two 
UNK to stand on . 
is it not a saying in every one ' s mouth , possession is half of the law : 
that is , UNK of how the thing came into possession ? but often 
possession is the whole of the law . what are the sinews and souls of 
russian UNK and UNK slaves but fast - fish , whereof possession is 
the whole of the law ? what to the rapacious landlord is the widow ' s last 
UNK but a fast - fish ? what is yonder UNK UNK ' s marble mansion 
with a door - plate for a waif ; what is that but a fast - fish ? what is the 
ruinous UNK which UNK , the UNK , gets from poor woebegone , 
the bankrupt , on a UNK to keep woebegone ' s family from starvation ; 
what is that ruinous UNK but a fast - fish ? what is the UNK of 
savesoul ' s income of l100 , 000 seized from the UNK bread and cheese 
of hundreds of thousands of broken - backed laborers ( all sure of heaven 
without any of savesoul ' s help ) what is that globular l100 , 000 but a 
fast - fish ? what are the duke of UNK ' s hereditary towns and UNK 
but fast - fish ? what to that UNK harpooneer , john bull , is poor 
UNK , but a fast - fish ? what to that apostolic UNK , brother 
UNK , is UNK but a fast - fish ? and concerning all these , is not 
possession the whole of the law ? 
but if the doctrine of fast - fish be pretty generally applicable , 
the kindred doctrine of loose - fish is still more widely so . that is 
UNK and universally applicable . 
what was america in UNK but a loose - fish , in which UNK struck the 
spanish standard by way of UNK it for his royal master and UNK ? 
what was poland to the czar ? what greece to the turk ? what india 
to england ? what at last will mexico be to the united states ? all 
loose - fish . 
what are the rights of man and the UNK of the world but 
loose - fish ? what all men ' s minds and opinions but loose - fish ? what is 
the principle of UNK belief in them but a loose - fish ? what to 
the ostentatious UNK UNK are the thoughts of UNK but 
loose - fish ? what is the great globe itself but a loose - fish ? and what 
are you , reader , but a loose - fish and a fast - fish , too ? 
chapter UNK . heads or tails . 
" de UNK UNK UNK , UNK UNK UNK UNK , et UNK UNK . " 
UNK , l . 3 , UNK . 3 . 
latin from the books of the laws of england , which taken along with the 
UNK , means , that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast of 
that land , the king , as UNK grand harpooneer , must have the head , 
and the queen be respectfully presented with the tail . a UNK which , 
in the whale , is much like UNK an apple ; there is no intermediate 
remainder . now as this law , under a modified form , is to this day in 
force in england ; and as it offers in various respects a strange UNK 
touching the general law of fast and loose - fish , it is here treated of 
in a separate chapter , on the same UNK principle that UNK 
the english UNK to be at the expense of a separate UNK , specially 
reserved for the UNK of royalty . in the first place , in 
curious proof of the fact that the above - mentioned law is still in 
force , i proceed to lay before you a circumstance that happened within 
the last two years . 
it seems that some honest mariners of UNK , or sandwich , or some one 
of the cinque ports , had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and 
UNK a fine whale which they had originally descried afar off from 
the shore . now the cinque ports are partially or somehow under the 
UNK of a sort of UNK or beadle , called a lord warden . 
holding the office directly from the crown , i believe , all the royal 
UNK incident to the cinque port territories become by UNK 
his . by some writers this office is called a UNK . but not so . 
because the lord warden is UNK employed at times in fobbing his 
UNK ; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of 
them . 
now when these poor sun - burnt mariners , bare - footed , and with their 
trowsers rolled high up on their UNK legs , had wearily hauled their fat 
fish high and dry , promising themselves a good UNK from the precious 
oil and bone ; and in UNK UNK rare tea with their wives , and good 
ale with their cronies , upon the strength of their respective shares ; up 
steps a very learned and most christian and charitable gentleman , with 
a copy of blackstone under his arm ; and laying it upon the whale ' s head , 
he says - " hands off ! this fish , my UNK , is a fast - fish . i seize it 
as the lord warden ' s . " upon this the poor mariners in their respectful 
consternation - so truly english - knowing not what to say , fall to 
vigorously UNK their heads all round ; meanwhile ruefully glancing 
from the whale to the stranger . but that did in nowise mend the matter , 
or at all UNK the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy 
of blackstone . at length one of them , after long UNK about for 
his ideas , made bold to speak , 
" please , sir , who is the lord warden ? " 
" the duke . " 
" but the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish ? " 
" it is his . " 
" we have been at great trouble , and peril , and some expense , and is 
all that to go to the duke ' s benefit ; we getting nothing at all for our 
pains but our UNK ? " 
" it is his . " 
" is the duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of 
getting a UNK ? " 
" it is his . " 
" i thought to relieve my old bed - ridden mother by part of my share of 
this whale . " 
" it is his . " 
" won ' t the duke be content with a quarter or a half ? " 
" it is his . " 
in a word , the whale was seized and sold , and his grace the duke of 
UNK received the money . thinking that viewed in some particular 
lights , the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be 
deemed , under the circumstances , a rather hard one , an honest UNK 
of the town respectfully addressed a note to his grace , begging him to 
take the case of those UNK mariners into full consideration . to 
which my lord duke in substance replied ( both letters were published ) 
that he had already done so , and received the money , and would be 
obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he ( the reverend 
gentleman ) would decline UNK with other people ' s business . is 
this the still UNK old man , standing at the corners of the three 
UNK , on all hands UNK alms of beggars ? 
it will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the 
duke to the whale was a UNK one from the sovereign . we must needs 
inquire then on what principle the sovereign is originally invested with 
that right . the law itself has already been set forth . but UNK gives 
us the reason for it . says UNK , the whale so caught belongs to 
the king and queen , " because of its superior excellence . " and by the 
UNK commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such 
matters . 
but why should the king have the head , and the queen the tail ? a reason 
for that , ye lawyers ! 
in his treatise on " queen - gold , " or queen - UNK , an old king ' s bench 
author , one william prynne , thus UNK : " ye tail is ye queen ' s , 
that ye queen ' s wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone . " now this 
was written at a time when the black limber bone of the greenland or 
right whale was largely used in ladies ' UNK . but this same bone 
is not in the tail ; it is in the head , which is a sad mistake for 
a sagacious lawyer like prynne . but is the queen a UNK , to be 
presented with a tail ? an UNK meaning may lurk here . 
there are two royal fish so styled by the english law writers - the whale 
and the sturgeon ; both royal property under certain UNK , and 
nominally UNK the tenth branch of the crown ' s ordinary UNK . 
i know not that any other author has hinted of the matter ; but by 
inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same 
way as the whale , the king receiving the highly dense and elastic head 
peculiar to that fish , which , UNK regarded , may possibly be 
humorously grounded upon some presumed UNK . and thus there 
seems a reason in all things , even in law . 
chapter UNK . the pequod meets the rose - bud . 
" in vain it was to UNK for UNK in the UNK of this leviathan , 
insufferable UNK denying not inquiry . " sir t . browne , v . e . 
it was a week or two after the last whaling scene UNK , and when we 
were slowly sailing over a sleepy , vapoury , mid - day sea , that the many 
noses on the pequod ' s deck proved more vigilant UNK than the 
three pairs of eyes aloft . a peculiar and not very pleasant smell was 
smelt in the sea . 
" i will UNK something now , " said stubb , " that somewhere hereabouts are 
some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day . i thought they 
would keel up before long . " 
presently , the vapours in advance slid aside ; and there in the distance 
lay a ship , whose UNK sails betokened that some sort of whale must be 
alongside . as we glided nearer , the stranger showed french colours from 
his peak ; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea - fowl that UNK , and 
hovered , and UNK around him , it was plain that the whale alongside 
must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale , that is , a whale that 
has died unmolested on the sea , and so floated an UNK corpse . 
it may well be conceived , what an unsavory odor such a mass must 
UNK ; worse than an UNK city in the plague , when the living are 
incompetent to bury the departed . so intolerable indeed is it regarded 
by some , that no cupidity could persuade them to UNK alongside of it . 
yet are there those who will still do it ; notwithstanding the fact that 
the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior quality , and 
by no means of the nature of UNK - of - rose . 
coming still nearer with the expiring breeze , we saw that the frenchman 
had a second whale alongside ; and this second whale seemed even more 
of a nosegay than the first . in truth , it turned out to be one of 
those UNK whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort 
of prodigious dyspepsia , or UNK ; leaving their UNK bodies 
almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil . nevertheless , in the 
proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn 
up his nose at such a whale as this , however much he may shun blasted 
whales in general . 
the pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger , that stubb vowed 
he recognised his cutting spade - pole entangled in the lines that were 
knotted round the tail of one of these whales . 
" there ' s a pretty fellow , now , " he UNK laughed , standing in the 
ship ' s bows , " there ' s a UNK for ye ! i well know that these UNK 
of UNK are but poor devils in the fishery ; sometimes lowering 
their boats for breakers , mistaking them for sperm whale spouts ; yes , 
and sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full of boxes of 
tallow candles , and cases of UNK , foreseeing that all the oil they 
will get won ' t be enough to dip the captain ' s UNK into ; aye , we all 
know these things ; but look ye , here ' s a UNK that is content with our 
UNK , the drugged whale there , i mean ; aye , and is content too with 
scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there . poor 
devil ! i say , pass round a hat , some one , and let ' s make him a present 
of a little oil for dear charity ' s sake . for what oil he ' ll get from 
that drugged whale there , wouldn ' t be fit to burn in a jail ; no , not 
in a condemned UNK . and as for the other whale , why , i ' ll UNK to get 
more oil by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours , than 
he ' ll get from that bundle of bones ; though , now that i think of it , it 
may contain something worth a good deal more than oil ; yes , ambergris . 
i wonder now if our old man has thought of that . it ' s worth trying . yes , 
i ' m for it ; " and so saying he started for the quarter - deck . 
by this time the faint air had become a complete calm ; so that whether 
or no , the pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell , with no hope of 
escaping except by its UNK up again . issuing from the cabin , stubb 
now called his boat ' s crew , and pulled off for the stranger . drawing 
across her bow , he perceived that in accordance with the UNK french 
taste , the upper part of her stem - piece was carved in the likeness of a 
huge drooping stalk , was painted green , and for UNK had copper 
spikes projecting from it here and there ; the whole terminating in a 
symmetrical folded UNK of a bright red colour . upon her head UNK , in 
large gilt letters , he read " bouton de rose , " - rose - button , or rose - bud ; 
and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship . 
though stubb did not understand the bouton part of the UNK , yet 
the word rose , and the UNK figure - head put together , sufficiently 
explained the whole to him . 
" a wooden rose - bud , eh ? " he cried with his hand to his nose , " that will 
do very well ; but how like all creation it smells ! " 
now in order to hold direct UNK with the people on deck , he 
had to pull round the bows to the starboard side , and thus come close to 
the blasted whale ; and so talk over it . 
arrived then at this spot , with one hand still to his nose , he 
UNK - " bouton - de - rose , ahoy ! are there any of you bouton - de - roses that 
speak english ? " 
" yes , " rejoined a guernsey - man from the bulwarks , who turned out to be 
the chief - mate . 
" well , then , my bouton - de - rose - bud , have you seen the white whale ? " 
" what whale ? " 
" the white whale - a sperm whale - moby dick , have ye seen him ? 
" never heard of such a whale . cachalot UNK ! white whale - no . " 
" very good , then ; good bye now , and i ' ll call again in a minute . " 
then rapidly pulling back towards the pequod , and seeing ahab leaning 
over the quarter - deck rail awaiting his report , he UNK his two hands 
into a trumpet and shouted - " no , sir ! no ! " upon which ahab retired , and 
stubb returned to the frenchman . 
he now perceived that the guernsey - man , who had just got into the 
chains , and was using a cutting - spade , had UNK his nose in a sort of 
bag . 
" what ' s the matter with your nose , there ? " said stubb . " broke it ? " 
" i wish it was broken , or that i didn ' t have any nose at all ! " answered 
the guernsey - man , who did not seem to relish the job he was at very 
much . " but what are you holding yours for ? " 
" oh , nothing ! it ' s a wax nose ; i have to hold it on . fine day , ain ' t it ? 
air rather UNK , i should say ; throw us a bunch of UNK , will ye , 
bouton - de - rose ? " 
" what in the devil ' s name do you want here ? " roared the UNK , 
flying into a sudden passion . 
" oh ! keep cool - cool ? yes , that ' s the word ! why don ' t you pack those 
whales in ice while you ' re working at ' em ? but UNK aside , though ; do 
you know , rose - bud , that it ' s all nonsense trying to get any oil out of 
such whales ? as for that dried up one , there , he hasn ' t a UNK in his 
whole carcase . " 
" i know that well enough ; but , d ' ye see , the captain here won ' t believe 
it ; this is his first voyage ; he was a cologne UNK before . but 
come aboard , and mayhap he ' ll believe you , if he won ' t me ; and so i ' ll 
get out of this dirty scrape . " 
" anything to oblige ye , my sweet and pleasant fellow , " rejoined stubb , 
and with that he soon mounted to the deck . there a queer scene presented 
itself . the sailors , in tasselled caps of red worsted , were getting the 
heavy tackles in readiness for the whales . but they worked rather slow 
and talked very fast , and seemed in anything but a good humor . all their 
noses UNK projected from their faces like so many jib - UNK . 
now and then pairs of them would drop their work , and run up to the 
mast - head to get some fresh air . some thinking they would catch the 
plague , dipped oakum in coal - tar , and at intervals held it to their 
nostrils . others having broken the UNK of their pipes almost short 
off at the bowl , were vigorously puffing tobacco - smoke , so that it 
constantly filled their UNK . 
stubb was struck by a shower of UNK and UNK proceeding from 
the captain ' s round - house UNK ; and looking in that direction saw a 
fiery face thrust from behind the door , which was held UNK from within . 
this was the tormented surgeon , who , after in vain UNK 
against the proceedings of the day , had UNK himself to the captain ' s 
round - house ( cabinet he called it ) to avoid the UNK ; but still , could 
not help yelling out his entreaties and UNK at times . 
marking all this , stubb argued well for his scheme , and turning to the 
guernsey - man had a little chat with him , during which the stranger mate 
expressed his UNK of his captain as a UNK UNK , 
who had brought them all into so unsavory and UNK a pickle . 
sounding him carefully , stubb further perceived that the guernsey - man 
had not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris . he therefore 
held his peace on that head , but otherwise was quite UNK and 
confidential with him , so that the two quickly UNK a little plan 
for both UNK and UNK the captain , without his at all 
dreaming of distrusting their sincerity . according to this little plan 
of theirs , the guernsey - man , under cover of an interpreter ' s office , was 
to tell the captain what he pleased , but as coming from stubb ; and as 
for stubb , he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost in 
him during the interview . 
by this time their destined UNK appeared from his cabin . he was a 
small and dark , but rather delicate looking man for a sea - captain , with 
large whiskers and UNK , however ; and wore a red cotton velvet vest 
with watch - seals at his side . to this gentleman , stubb was now politely 
introduced by the guernsey - man , who at once ostentatiously put on the 
aspect of UNK between them . 
" what shall i say to him first ? " said he . 
" why , " said stubb , eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals , " you 
may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of UNK to me , 
though i don ' t pretend to be a judge . " 
" he says , monsieur , " said the guernsey - man , in french , turning to his 
captain , " that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel , whose captain 
and chief - mate , with six sailors , had all died of a fever caught from a 
blasted whale they had brought alongside . " 
upon this the captain started , and eagerly desired to know more . 
" what now ? " said the guernsey - man to stubb . 
" why , since he takes it so easy , tell him that now i have eyed him 
carefully , i ' m quite certain that he ' s no more fit to command a 
whale - ship than a st . jago monkey . in fact , tell him from me he ' s a 
UNK . " 
" he UNK and declares , monsieur , that the other whale , the dried one , is 
far more deadly than the blasted one ; in fine , monsieur , he UNK us , 
as we value our lives , to cut loose from these fish . " 
instantly the captain ran forward , and in a loud voice commanded his 
crew to desist from hoisting the cutting - tackles , and at once cast loose 
the cables and chains UNK the whales to the ship . 
" what now ? " said the guernsey - man , when the captain had returned to 
them . 
" why , let me see ; yes , you may as well tell him now that - that - in 
fact , tell him i ' ve UNK him , and ( aside to himself ) perhaps somebody 
else . " 
" he says , monsieur , that he ' s very happy to have been of any service to 
us . " 
hearing this , the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties 
( meaning himself and mate ) and concluded by UNK stubb down into his 
cabin to drink a bottle of UNK . 
" he wants you to take a glass of wine with him , " said the interpreter . 
" thank him heartily ; but tell him it ' s against my principles to drink 
with the man i ' ve UNK . in fact , tell him i must go . " 
" he says , monsieur , that his principles won ' t admit of his drinking ; but 
that if monsieur wants to live another day to drink , then monsieur had 
best drop all four boats , and pull the ship away from these whales , for 
it ' s so calm they won ' t UNK . " 
by this time stubb was over the side , and getting into his boat , hailed 
the guernsey - man to this effect , - that having a long tow - line in his 
boat , he would do what he could to help them , by pulling out the lighter 
whale of the two from the ship ' s side . while the frenchman ' s boats , 
then , were engaged in towing the ship one way , stubb UNK towed 
away at his whale the other way , ostentatiously UNK out a most 
unusually long tow - line . 
presently a breeze sprang up ; stubb UNK to cast off from the whale ; 
hoisting his boats , the frenchman soon increased his distance , while the 
pequod slid in between him and stubb ' s whale . whereupon stubb quickly 
pulled to the floating body , and hailing the pequod to give notice of 
his UNK , at once proceeded to UNK the UNK of his UNK 
cunning . seizing his sharp boat - spade , he commenced an UNK in the 
body , a little behind the side fin . you would almost have thought he was 
UNK a cellar there in the sea ; and when at length his spade struck 
against the gaunt ribs , it was like turning up old roman tiles and 
UNK buried in fat english UNK . his boat ' s crew were all in high 
excitement , eagerly helping their chief , and looking as anxious as 
gold - hunters . 
and all the time numberless fowls were diving , and ducking , and 
screaming , and yelling , and fighting around them . stubb was beginning 
to look disappointed , especially as the horrible nosegay increased , when 
suddenly from out the very heart of this plague , there stole a faint 
stream of perfume , which flowed through the tide of bad smells without 
being absorbed by it , as one river will flow into and then along with 
another , without at all blending with it for a time . 
" i have it , i have it , " cried stubb , with delight , striking something in 
the subterranean regions , " a purse ! a purse ! " 
dropping his spade , he thrust both hands in , and drew out handfuls 
of something that looked like ripe windsor UNK , or rich mottled old 
cheese ; very unctuous and savory withal . you might easily dent it with 
your thumb ; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour . and this , good 
friends , is ambergris , worth a gold guinea an ounce to any UNK . 
some six handfuls were obtained ; but more was UNK lost in the 
sea , and still more , perhaps , might have been secured were it not for 
impatient ahab ' s loud command to stubb to desist , and come on board , 
else the ship would bid them good bye . 
chapter UNK . ambergris . 
now this ambergris is a very curious substance , and so important as 
an article of commerce , that in UNK a certain nantucket - born captain 
coffin was UNK at the bar of the english house of UNK on that 
subject . for at that time , and indeed until a comparatively late day , 
the precise origin of ambergris remained , like amber itself , a problem 
to the learned . though the word ambergris is but the french UNK for 
grey amber , yet the two substances are quite distinct . for amber , though 
at times found on the sea - coast , is also dug up in some far inland 
UNK , whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea . besides , 
amber is a hard , transparent , brittle , UNK substance , used for 
mouth - pieces to pipes , for UNK and UNK ; but ambergris is soft , 
UNK , and so highly fragrant and UNK , that it is largely used in 
UNK , in UNK , precious candles , hair - UNK , and UNK . 
the turks use it in UNK , and also carry it to UNK , for the same 
purpose that UNK is carried to st . peter ' s in rome . some wine 
UNK drop a few UNK into UNK , to flavor it . 
who would think , then , that such fine ladies and gentlemen should UNK 
themselves with an essence found in the UNK bowels of a sick 
whale ! yet so it is . by some , ambergris is supposed to be the cause , and 
by others the effect , of the dyspepsia in the whale . how to cure such 
a dyspepsia it were hard to say , unless by UNK three or four 
boat loads of UNK ' s UNK , and then running out of harm ' s way , as 
laborers do in UNK rocks . 
i have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris , certain 
hard , round , bony plates , which at first stubb thought might be sailors ' 
trowsers buttons ; but it afterwards turned out that they were nothing 
more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner . 
now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be 
found in the heart of such UNK ; is this nothing ? bethink thee of that 
saying of st . paul in UNK , about UNK and incorruption ; 
how that we are UNK in dishonour , but raised in glory . and likewise 
call to mind that saying of UNK about what it is that UNK 
the best musk . also forget not the strange fact that of all things of 
ill - savor , cologne - water , in its rudimental UNK stages , is the 
worst . 
i should like to conclude the chapter with the above UNK , but cannot , 
owing to my anxiety to UNK a charge often made against whalemen , 
and which , in the estimation of some already UNK minds , might be 
considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of 
the frenchman ' s two whales . elsewhere in this volume the UNK 
UNK has been UNK , that the vocation of whaling is throughout 
a UNK , UNK business . but there is another thing to UNK . they 
hint that all whales always smell bad . now how did this UNK UNK 
UNK ? 
i opine , that it is plainly UNK to the first arrival of the 
greenland whaling ships in london , more than two centuries ago . because 
those whalemen did not then , and do not now , try out their oil at sea as 
the southern ships have always done ; but cutting up the fresh blubber in 
small bits , thrust it through the UNK holes of large casks , and carry 
it home in that manner ; the UNK of the season in those icy seas , 
and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed , UNK 
any other course . the consequence is , that upon breaking into the hold , 
and UNK one of these whale cemeteries , in the greenland UNK , a 
savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising from excavating an 
old city grave - yard , for the foundations of a lying - in - hospital . 
i partly surmise also , that this wicked charge against whalers may be 
likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of greenland , in former 
times , of a dutch village called UNK or UNK , which 
latter name is the one used by the learned UNK UNK slack , in his great 
work on smells , a text - book on that subject . as its name UNK ( smeer , 
fat ; UNK , to put up ) , this village was founded in order to afford a 
place for the blubber of the dutch whale fleet to be tried out , without 
being taken home to holland for that purpose . it was a collection of 
furnaces , fat - UNK , and oil UNK ; and when the works were in full 
operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor . but all this is 
quite different with a south sea sperm whaler ; which in a voyage of four 
years perhaps , after completely filling her hold with oil , does not , 
perhaps , consume fifty days in the business of boiling out ; and in the 
state that it is casked , the oil is nearly UNK . the truth is , that 
living or dead , if but decently treated , whales as a species are by 
no means creatures of ill odor ; nor can whalemen be recognised , as the 
people of the middle ages affected to detect a UNK in the company , by 
the nose . nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant , 
when , as a general thing , he UNK such high health ; taking abundance 
of UNK ; always out of doors ; though , it is true , seldom in the 
open air . i say , that the motion of a sperm whale ' s flukes above water 
UNK a perfume , as when a musk - UNK lady UNK her dress in a 
warm parlor . what then shall i UNK the sperm whale to for UNK , 
considering his magnitude ? must it not be to that famous elephant , with 
jewelled tusks , and UNK with UNK , which was led out of an indian 
town to do honour to alexander the great ? 
chapter UNK . the castaway . 
it was but some few days after encountering the frenchman , that a most 
significant event befell the most insignificant of the pequod ' s crew ; an 
event most UNK ; and which ended in providing the sometimes 
madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying 
prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own . 
now , in the whale ship , it is not every one that goes in the boats . some 
few hands are reserved called ship - keepers , whose UNK it is to work 
the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale . as a general thing , 
these ship - keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats ' 
crews . but if there happen to be an unduly slender , clumsy , or UNK 
wight in the ship , that wight is certain to be made a ship - UNK . it 
was so in the pequod with the little negro UNK by UNK - name , pip by 
UNK . poor pip ! ye have heard of him before ; ye must remember 
his tambourine on that dramatic midnight , so gloomy - jolly . 
in outer aspect , pip and dough - boy made a match , like a black UNK and a 
white one , of equal UNK , though of UNK colour , driven in 
one UNK UNK . but while hapless dough - boy was by nature dull and 
UNK in his UNK , pip , though over tender - hearted , was at bottom 
very bright , with that pleasant , genial , jolly brightness peculiar to 
his tribe ; a tribe , which ever enjoy all UNK and UNK with 
UNK , UNK relish than any other race . for blacks , the year ' s calendar 
should show naught but three hundred and sixty - five fourth of UNK and 
new year ' s days . nor smile so , while i write that this little black was 
UNK , for even blackness has its brilliancy ; behold yon UNK 
ebony , panelled in king ' s UNK . but pip UNK life , and all life ' s 
peaceable UNK ; so that the panic - striking business in which he 
had somehow unaccountably become entrapped , had most sadly UNK his 
brightness ; though , as ere long will be seen , what was thus temporarily 
subdued in him , in the end was destined to be UNK UNK by 
strange wild fires , that UNK showed him off to ten times the 
natural lustre with which in his native tolland UNK in UNK , 
he had once enlivened many a UNK ' s UNK on the green ; and at 
UNK even - tide , with his gay ha - ha ! had turned the round horizon 
into one star - UNK tambourine . so , though in the clear air of day , 
suspended against a blue - UNK neck , the pure - UNK diamond drop 
will UNK glow ; yet , when the cunning UNK would show you 
the diamond in its most impressive lustre , he lays it against a gloomy 
ground , and then lights it up , not by the sun , but by some unnatural 
gases . then come out those fiery effulgences , infernally superb ; then 
the evil - blazing diamond , once the UNK symbol of the crystal skies , 
looks like some crown - jewel stolen from the king of hell . but let us to 
the story . 
it came to pass , that in the ambergris affair stubb ' s after - oarsman 
chanced so to UNK his hand , as for a time to become quite UNK ; 
and , temporarily , pip was put into his place . 
the first time stubb lowered with him , pip evinced much UNK ; 
but happily , for that time , escaped close contact with the whale ; and 
therefore came off not altogether UNK ; though stubb observing 
him , took care , afterwards , to UNK him to cherish his UNK 
to the utmost , for he might often find it UNK . 
now upon the second lowering , the boat paddled upon the whale ; and as 
the fish received the darted iron , it gave its customary rap , which 
happened , in this instance , to be right under poor pip ' s seat . the 
involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap , paddle in 
hand , out of the boat ; and in such a way , that part of the slack whale 
line coming against his chest , he UNK it overboard with him , so as 
to become entangled in it , when at last UNK into the water . that 
instant the stricken whale started on a fierce run , the line swiftly 
straightened ; and UNK ! poor pip came all foaming up to the chocks 
of the boat , remorselessly dragged there by the line , which had taken 
several turns around his chest and neck . 
tashtego stood in the bows . he was full of the fire of the hunt . he 
hated pip for a UNK . snatching the boat - knife from its sheath , 
he suspended its sharp edge over the line , and turning towards stubb , 
exclaimed UNK , " cut ? " meantime pip ' s blue , choked face 
plainly looked , do , for god ' s sake ! all passed in a flash . in less than 
half a minute , this entire thing happened . 
" damn him , cut ! " roared stubb ; and so the whale was lost and pip was 
saved . 
so soon as he recovered himself , the poor little negro was UNK 
by UNK and UNK from the crew . tranquilly permitting these 
irregular UNK to UNK , stubb then in a plain , business - like , 
but still half humorous manner , cursed pip UNK ; and that done , 
UNK gave him much UNK advice . the substance was , never 
jump from a boat , pip , except - but all the rest was indefinite , as the 
UNK advice ever is . now , in general , stick to the boat , is your 
true UNK in whaling ; but cases will sometimes happen when leap from 
the boat , is still better . moreover , as if UNK at last that if he 
should give UNK conscientious advice to pip , he would be leaving 
him too wide a margin to jump in for the future ; stubb suddenly dropped 
all advice , and concluded with a peremptory command , " stick to the boat , 
pip , or by the lord , i won ' t pick you up if you jump ; mind that . we 
can ' t afford to lose whales by the likes of you ; a whale would sell for 
thirty times what you would , pip , in alabama . bear that in mind , and 
don ' t jump any more . " hereby perhaps stubb indirectly hinted , that 
though man UNK his fellow , yet man is a money - making animal , which 
UNK too often UNK with his UNK . 
but we are all in the hands of the gods ; and pip jumped again . it was 
under very similar circumstances to the first UNK ; but this time 
he did not breast out the line ; and hence , when the whale started to 
run , pip was left behind on the sea , like a hurried traveller ' s trunk . 
alas ! stubb was but too true to his word . it was a beautiful , UNK , 
blue day ; the spangled sea calm and cool , and UNK stretching away , 
all round , to the horizon , like gold - UNK ' s skin hammered out to the 
UNK . UNK up and down in that sea , pip ' s UNK head showed 
like a head of UNK . no boat - knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly 
astern . stubb ' s inexorable back was turned upon him ; and the whale was 
winged . in three minutes , a whole mile of UNK ocean was between 
pip and stubb . out from the centre of the sea , poor pip turned his 
crisp , curling , black head to the sun , another lonely castaway , though 
the loftiest and the UNK . 
now , in calm weather , to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the 
practised swimmer as to ride in a spring - carriage ashore . but the awful 
UNK is intolerable . the intense UNK of self in the 
middle of such a heartless UNK , my god ! who can tell it ? mark , how 
when sailors in a dead calm UNK in the open sea - mark how closely they 
hug their ship and only coast along her sides . 
but had stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate ? no ; he 
did not mean to , at least . because there were two boats in his wake , 
and he supposed , no doubt , that they would of course come up to pip very 
quickly , and pick him up ; though , indeed , such considerations towards 
oarsmen UNK through their own timidity , is not always manifested 
by the hunters in all similar instances ; and such instances not 
UNK occur ; almost invariably in the fishery , a coward , so 
called , is marked with the same ruthless UNK peculiar to 
military navies and armies . 
but it so happened , that those boats , without seeing pip , suddenly 
spying whales close to them on one side , turned , and gave chase ; and 
stubb ' s boat was now so far away , and he and all his crew so intent 
upon his fish , that pip ' s ringed horizon began to expand around him 
miserably . by the UNK chance the ship itself at last rescued him ; but 
from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot ; such , at 
least , they said he was . the sea had UNK kept his UNK body 
up , but drowned the infinite of his soul . not drowned entirely , though . 
rather carried down alive to wondrous depths , where strange shapes of 
the UNK primal world glided to and fro before his UNK eyes ; 
and the miser - UNK , wisdom , revealed his UNK heaps ; and among the 
UNK , heartless , ever - UNK eternities , pip saw the UNK , 
god - UNK , coral UNK , that out of the firmament of waters 
heaved the colossal orbs . he saw god ' s foot upon the UNK of the 
loom , and spoke it ; and therefore his shipmates called him mad . so man ' s 
insanity is heaven ' s sense ; and wandering from all mortal reason , man 
comes at last to that celestial thought , which , to reason , is absurd and 
frantic ; and weal or woe , feels then uncompromised , indifferent as his 
god . 
for the rest , blame not stubb too hardly . the thing is common in that 
fishery ; and in the sequel of the narrative , it will then be seen what 
like abandonment befell myself . 
chapter UNK . a squeeze of the hand . 
that whale of stubb ' s , so dearly purchased , was duly brought to 
the pequod ' s side , where all those cutting and hoisting operations 
previously detailed , were regularly gone through , even to the baling of 
the heidelburgh tun , or case . 
while some were occupied with this latter duty , others were employed 
in dragging away the larger tubs , so soon as filled with the sperm ; and 
when the proper time arrived , this same sperm was carefully UNK 
ere going to the try - works , of which anon . 
it had UNK and UNK to such a degree , that when , with several 
others , i sat down before a large UNK ' s UNK of it , i found 
it strangely UNK into lumps , here and there rolling about in the 
liquid part . it was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid . 
a sweet and unctuous duty ! no wonder that in old times this sperm was 
such a favourite cosmetic . such a UNK ! such a UNK ! such a 
UNK ! such a delicious UNK ! after having my hands in it for 
only a few minutes , my fingers felt like UNK , and began , as it were , to 
UNK and UNK . 
as i sat there at my ease , cross - legged on the deck ; after the bitter 
exertion at the windlass ; under a blue tranquil sky ; the ship under 
indolent sail , and gliding so serenely along ; as i UNK my hands among 
those soft , gentle globules of infiltrated UNK , woven almost within 
the hour ; as they UNK broke to my fingers , and discharged all their 
UNK , like fully ripe grapes their wine ; as i snuffed up that 
UNK UNK , - literally and truly , like the smell of spring 
UNK ; i declare to you , that for the time i lived as in a musky 
meadow ; i forgot all about our horrible oath ; in that inexpressible 
sperm , i washed my hands and my heart of it ; i almost began to credit 
the old UNK superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in UNK 
the heat of anger ; while UNK in that UNK , i felt UNK free from 
all ill - will , or petulance , or malice , of any sort whatsoever . 
squeeze ! squeeze ! squeeze ! all the morning long ; i UNK that sperm 
till i myself almost melted into it ; i UNK that sperm till a 
strange sort of insanity came over me ; and i found myself unwittingly 
squeezing my UNK - laborers ' hands in it , mistaking their hands for the 
gentle globules . such an abounding , affectionate , friendly , loving 
feeling did this avocation beget ; that at last i was continually 
squeezing their hands , and looking up into their eyes UNK ; as 
much as to say , - oh ! my dear fellow beings , why should we longer cherish 
any social UNK , or know the slightest ill - humor or UNK ! come ; 
let us squeeze hands all round ; nay , let us all squeeze ourselves into 
each other ; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and 
sperm of kindness . 
would that i could keep squeezing that sperm for ever ! for now , since by 
many prolonged , repeated experiences , i have perceived that in all cases 
man must eventually lower , or at least UNK , his conceit of UNK 
felicity ; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy ; but in 
the wife , the heart , the bed , the table , the UNK , the fireside , the 
country ; now that i have perceived all this , i am ready to squeeze case 
eternally . in thoughts of the visions of the night , i saw long rows of 
angels in paradise , each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti . 
now , while UNK of sperm , it behooves to speak of other things 
akin to it , in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the 
try - works . 
first comes white - horse , so called , which is obtained from the tapering 
part of the fish , and also from the UNK portions of his flukes . it 
is tough with UNK tendons - a wad of muscle - but still contains 
some oil . after being severed from the whale , the white - horse is first 
cut into portable UNK ere going to the mincer . they look much like 
blocks of UNK marble . 
plum - pudding is the term bestowed upon certain UNK parts of the 
whale ' s flesh , here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber , and 
often UNK to a considerable degree in its unctuousness . it is 
a most UNK , convivial , beautiful object to behold . as its name 
UNK , it is of an exceedingly rich , mottled UNK , with a UNK 
snowy and golden ground , dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and 
purple . it is UNK of UNK , in pictures of UNK . spite of reason , 
it is hard to keep yourself from eating it . i confess , that once i stole 
behind the foremast to try it . it tasted something as i should conceive 
a royal UNK from the thigh of louis UNK UNK might have tasted , 
supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison 
season , and that particular venison season contemporary with an 
unusually fine UNK of the UNK of UNK . 
there is another substance , and a very singular one , which turns up in 
the course of this business , but which i feel it to be very puzzling 
adequately to describe . it is called UNK ; an appellation 
original with the whalemen , and even so is the nature of the substance . 
it is an UNK UNK , UNK affair , most frequently found in the 
tubs of sperm , after a prolonged squeezing , and subsequent UNK . 
i hold it to be the wondrously thin , UNK UNK of the case , 
UNK . 
UNK , so called , is a term properly belonging to right whalemen , but 
sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen . it UNK the 
dark , UNK substance which is scraped off the back of the greenland 
or right whale , and much of which covers the decks of those inferior 
souls who hunt that ignoble leviathan . 
UNK . strictly this word is not UNK to the whale ' s UNK . 
but as applied by whalemen , it becomes so . a whaleman ' s UNK is 
a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of 
leviathan ' s tail : it averages an inch in thickness , and for the rest , is 
about the size of the iron part of a hoe . UNK moved along the 
oily deck , it UNK like a leathern UNK ; and by nameless 
UNK , as of magic , UNK along with it all UNK . 
but to learn all about these recondite matters , your best way is at once 
to descend into the blubber - room , and have a long talk with its inmates . 
this place has previously been mentioned as the UNK for the 
blanket - pieces , when stript and hoisted from the whale . when the proper 
time UNK for cutting up its contents , this apartment is a scene of 
terror to all UNK , especially by night . on one side , lit by a dull 
lantern , a space has been left clear for the UNK . they generally 
go in pairs , - a pike - and - gaffman and a spade - man . the whaling - pike is 
similar to a frigate ' s boarding - weapon of the same name . the gaff is 
something like a boat - hook . with his gaff , the gaffman hooks on to a 
sheet of blubber , and strives to hold it from slipping , as the ship 
UNK and UNK about . meanwhile , the spade - man stands on the sheet 
itself , perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse - pieces . this 
spade is sharp as UNK can make it ; the UNK ' s feet are UNK ; 
the thing he stands on will sometimes UNK slide away from 
him , like a UNK . if he cuts off one of his own toes , or one of his 
UNK ' , would you be very much astonished ? toes are scarce among 
veteran blubber - room men . 
chapter UNK . the cassock . 
had you stepped on board the pequod at a certain juncture of this 
post - UNK of the whale ; and had you UNK forward nigh the 
windlass , pretty sure am i that you would have UNK with no small 
curiosity a very strange , enigmatical object , which you would have seen 
there , lying along lengthwise in the lee UNK . not the wondrous 
cistern in the whale ' s huge head ; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower 
jaw ; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail ; none of these would so 
surprise you , as half a glimpse of that unaccountable UNK , - longer than 
a kentuckian is tall , nigh a foot in diameter at the base , and jet - black 
as yojo , the ebony idol of queequeg . and an idol , indeed , it is ; or , 
rather , in old times , its likeness was . such an idol as that found in 
the secret groves of queen UNK in UNK ; and for worshipping which , 
king UNK , her son , did UNK her , and destroyed the idol , and burnt it 
for an UNK at the brook UNK , as darkly set forth in the 15th 
chapter of the first book of kings . 
look at the sailor , called the mincer , who now comes along , and assisted 
by two allies , heavily backs the UNK , as the mariners call it , 
and with bowed shoulders , UNK off with it as if he were a grenadier 
carrying a dead comrade from the field . extending it upon the forecastle 
deck , he now proceeds UNK to remove its dark pelt , as an 
african hunter the pelt of a UNK . this done he turns the pelt inside 
out , like a UNK leg ; gives it a good stretching , so as almost to 
double its diameter ; and at last hangs it , well spread , in the rigging , 
to dry . ere long , it is taken down ; when removing some three feet of it , 
towards the pointed extremity , and then cutting two UNK for arm - holes 
at the other end , he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it . the mincer 
now stands before you invested in the full UNK of his calling . 
immemorial to all his order , this investiture alone will adequately 
UNK him , while employed in the peculiar UNK of his office . 
that office consists in mincing the horse - pieces of blubber for the 
pots ; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse , planted 
UNK against the bulwarks , and with a capacious tub beneath it , into 
which the UNK pieces drop , fast as the sheets from a rapt UNK ' s 
desk . arrayed in decent black ; UNK a conspicuous pulpit ; intent 
on bible leaves ; what a candidate for an UNK , what a lad for a 
UNK were this mincer ! * 
* bible leaves ! bible leaves ! this is the invariable cry from the mates 
to the mincer . it UNK him to be careful , and cut his work into as 
thin UNK as possible , inasmuch as by so doing the business of 
boiling out the oil is much UNK , and its quantity considerably 
increased , besides perhaps improving it in quality . 
chapter UNK . the try - works . 
besides her hoisted boats , an american whaler is UNK distinguished 
by her try - works . she presents the curious UNK of the most solid 
masonry UNK with oak and hemp in UNK the completed ship . 
it is as if from the open field a brick - UNK were transported to her 
planks . 
the try - works are planted between the foremast and mainmast , the most 
UNK part of the deck . the timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength , 
fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and 
mortar , some ten feet by eight square , and five in height . the 
foundation does not penetrate the deck , but the masonry is firmly 
secured to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all 
sides , and screwing it down to the timbers . on the flanks it is UNK 
with wood , and at top completely covered by a large , sloping , UNK 
hatchway . removing this hatch we expose the great try - pots , two in 
number , and each of several barrels ' capacity . when not in use , they are 
kept UNK clean . sometimes they are polished with soapstone 
and sand , till they shine within like silver punch - bowls . during the 
night - watches some UNK old sailors will crawl into them and coil 
themselves away there for a nap . while employed in UNK them - one 
man in each pot , side by side - many confidential communications 
are carried on , over the iron lips . it is a place also for profound 
mathematical meditation . it was in the left hand try - pot of the pequod , 
with the soapstone diligently UNK round me , that i was first 
indirectly struck by the remarkable fact , that in UNK all bodies 
gliding along the UNK , my soapstone for example , will descend from 
any point in precisely the same time . 
removing the fire - board from the front of the try - works , the bare 
masonry of that side is exposed , penetrated by the two iron mouths of 
the furnaces , directly underneath the pots . these mouths are fitted 
with heavy doors of iron . the intense heat of the fire is UNK 
from communicating itself to the deck , by means of a shallow reservoir 
extending under the entire inclosed surface of the works . by a UNK 
inserted at the rear , this reservoir is kept replenished with water as 
fast as it UNK . there are no external chimneys ; they open direct 
from the rear wall . and here let us go back for a moment . 
it was about nine o ' clock at night that the pequod ' s try - works were 
first started on this present voyage . it belonged to stubb to UNK 
the business . 
" all ready there ? off hatch , then , and start her . you cook , fire the 
works . " this was an easy thing , for the carpenter had been thrusting his 
shavings into the furnace throughout the passage . here be it said that 
in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try - works has to be fed for a 
time with wood . after that no wood is used , except as a means of quick 
UNK to the UNK fuel . in a word , after being tried out , the 
crisp , shrivelled blubber , now called scraps or fritters , still contains 
considerable of its unctuous UNK . these fritters feed the flames . 
like a UNK burning UNK , or a self - consuming UNK , once 
UNK , the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body . 
would that he consumed his own smoke ! for his smoke is horrible to 
inhale , and inhale it you must , and not only that , but you must live in 
it for the time . it has an unspeakable , wild , hindoo odor about it , such 
as may lurk in the vicinity of UNK UNK . it smells like the left 
wing of the day of judgment ; it is an argument for the pit . 
by midnight the works were in full operation . we were clear from the 
carcase ; sail had been made ; the wind was UNK ; the wild ocean 
darkness was intense . but that darkness was UNK up by the fierce 
flames , which at intervals forked forth from the sooty UNK , and 
illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging , as with the famed greek 
fire . the burning ship drove on , as if remorselessly commissioned to 
some vengeful deed . so the pitch and sulphur - freighted brigs of the 
bold UNK , UNK , issuing from their midnight harbors , with broad 
sheets of flame for sails , bore down upon the turkish UNK , and 
folded them in UNK . 
the hatch , removed from the top of the works , now afforded a wide hearth 
in front of them . standing on this were the UNK shapes of the 
pagan harpooneers , always the whale - ship ' s UNK . with huge pronged 
poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots , or 
stirred up the fires beneath , till the snaky flames darted , curling , out 
of the doors to catch them by the feet . the smoke rolled away in sullen 
heaps . to every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil , 
which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces . opposite the mouth 
of the works , on the further side of the wide wooden hearth , was the 
windlass . this served for a sea - UNK . here lounged the watch , when not 
otherwise employed , looking into the red heat of the fire , till their 
eyes felt scorched in their heads . their tawny features , now all 
begrimed with smoke and sweat , their matted beards , and the contrasting 
barbaric brilliancy of their teeth , all these were strangely revealed in 
the capricious emblazonings of the works . as they narrated to each other 
their unholy adventures , their tales of terror told in words of mirth ; 
as their uncivilized UNK forked upwards out of them , like the 
flames from the furnace ; as to and fro , in their front , the harpooneers 
wildly UNK with their huge pronged forks and UNK ; as the 
wind howled on , and the sea leaped , and the ship groaned and dived , and 
yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness 
of the sea and the night , and UNK UNK the white bone in 
her mouth , and UNK spat round her on all sides ; then the rushing 
pequod , freighted with savages , and laden with fire , and burning 
a corpse , and plunging into that blackness of darkness , seemed the 
material counterpart of her monomaniac commander ' s soul . 
so seemed it to me , as i stood at her helm , and for long hours silently 
guided the way of this fire - ship on the sea . wrapped , for that interval , 
in darkness myself , i but the better saw the redness , the madness , the 
UNK of others . the continual sight of the fiend shapes before 
me , UNK half in smoke and half in fire , these at last begat kindred 
visions in my soul , so soon as i began to yield to that unaccountable 
UNK which ever would come over me at a midnight helm . 
but that night , in particular , a strange ( and ever since inexplicable ) 
thing occurred to me . starting from a brief standing sleep , i was 
horribly conscious of something UNK wrong . the jaw - bone tiller smote 
my side , which leaned against it ; in my ears was the low hum of sails , 
just beginning to shake in the wind ; i thought my eyes were open ; i 
was half conscious of putting my fingers to the UNK and mechanically 
stretching them still further apart . but , spite of all this , i could see 
no compass before me to steer by ; though it seemed but a minute since i 
had been watching the card , by the steady binnacle lamp UNK it . 
nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom , now and then made ghastly by 
flashes of redness . uppermost was the impression , that whatever swift , 
rushing thing i stood on was not so much bound to any haven ahead as 
rushing from all UNK astern . a stark , UNK feeling , as of 
death , came over me . convulsively my hands grasped the tiller , but with 
the crazy conceit that the tiller was , somehow , in some enchanted way , 
inverted . my god ! what is the matter with me ? thought i . lo ! in my brief 
sleep i had turned myself about , and was UNK the ship ' s stern , with 
my back to her prow and the compass . in an instant i faced back , just 
in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind , and very 
probably capsizing her . how glad and how grateful the relief from this 
unnatural UNK of the night , and the fatal contingency of being 
brought by the lee ! 
look not too long in the face of the fire , o man ! never dream with thy 
hand on the helm ! turn not thy back to the compass ; UNK the first 
hint of the UNK tiller ; believe not the artificial fire , when its 
redness makes all things look ghastly . to - morrow , in the natural sun , 
the skies will be bright ; those who glared like devils in the UNK 
flames , the UNK will show in far other , at least UNK , relief ; the 
glorious , golden , glad sun , the only true lamp - all others but UNK ! 
nevertheless the sun hides not virginia ' s dismal swamp , nor rome ' s 
accursed UNK , nor wide UNK , nor all the millions of miles of 
UNK and of UNK beneath the moon . the sun hides not the ocean , 
which is the dark side of this earth , and which is two thirds of this 
earth . so , therefore , that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow 
in him , that mortal man cannot be true - not true , or undeveloped . with 
books the same . the truest of all men was the man of sorrows , and the 
truest of all books is solomon ' s , and UNK is the fine hammered 
steel of woe . " all is vanity . " all . this wilful world hath not got hold 
of UNK solomon ' s wisdom yet . but he who UNK UNK and 
UNK , and walks fast crossing UNK , and would rather talk of 
UNK than hell ; calls UNK , young , UNK , UNK , poor devils all 
of sick men ; and throughout a care - free lifetime swears by UNK as 
passing wise , and therefore jolly ; - not that man is fitted to sit 
down on tomb - stones , and break the green damp mould with unfathomably 
wondrous solomon . 
but even solomon , he says , " the man that UNK out of the way 
of understanding shall remain " ( i . e . , even while living ) " in the 
congregation of the dead . " give not thyself up , then , to fire , lest it 
UNK thee , UNK thee ; as for the time it did me . there is a wisdom 
that is woe ; but there is a woe that is madness . and there is a UNK 
eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the UNK gorges , 
and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces . 
and even if he for ever flies within the gorge , that gorge is in the 
mountains ; so that even in his lowest UNK the mountain eagle is still 
higher than other birds upon the plain , even though they soar . 
chapter UNK . the lamp . 
had you descended from the pequod ' s try - works to the pequod ' s 
forecastle , where the off duty watch were sleeping , for one single 
moment you would have almost thought you were standing in some 
illuminated UNK of UNK kings and UNK . there they lay 
in their triangular oaken vaults , each mariner a chiselled muteness ; a 
score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes . 
in merchantmen , oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of 
queens . to dress in the dark , and eat in the dark , and UNK in 
darkness to his UNK , this is his usual lot . but the whaleman , as he 
seeks the food of light , so he lives in light . he makes his berth an 
UNK ' s lamp , and lays him down in it ; so that in the UNK night 
the ship ' s black hull still houses an UNK . 
see with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of 
lamps - often but old UNK and vials , though - to the copper UNK at 
the try - works , and UNK them there , as UNK of ale at a UNK . he 
burns , too , the purest of oil , in its unmanufactured , and , therefore , 
unvitiated state ; a fluid unknown to solar , UNK , or UNK 
contrivances ashore . it is sweet as early grass butter in april . he 
goes and UNK for his oil , so as to be sure of its UNK and 
UNK , even as the traveller on the prairie UNK up his own 
supper of game . 
chapter UNK . stowing down and clearing up . 
already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off 
descried from the mast - head ; how he is chased over the watery UNK , and 
UNK in the valleys of the deep ; how he is then towed alongside 
and beheaded ; and how ( on the principle which entitled the headsman of 
old to the UNK in which the beheaded was killed ) his great padded 
UNK becomes the property of his UNK ; how , in due time , he 
is condemned to the pots , and , like UNK , UNK , and UNK , his 
spermaceti , oil , and bone pass UNK through the fire ; - but now it 
remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of the description by 
UNK - singing , if i may - the romantic proceeding of UNK off 
his oil into the casks and striking them down into the hold , where 
once again leviathan UNK to his native profundities , sliding along 
beneath the surface as before ; but , alas ! never more to rise and blow . 
while still warm , the oil , like hot punch , is received into the 
six - barrel casks ; and while , perhaps , the ship is pitching and rolling 
this way and that in the midnight sea , the enormous casks are UNK 
round and headed over , end for end , and sometimes UNK UNK 
across the slippery deck , like so many land slides , till at last 
man - handled and stayed in their course ; and all round the hoops , rap , 
rap , go as many hammers as can play upon them , for now , ex officio , 
every sailor is a cooper . 
at length , when the last pint is casked , and all is cool , then the great 
hatchways are UNK , the bowels of the ship are thrown open , and down 
go the casks to their final rest in the sea . this done , the hatches are 
replaced , and UNK closed , like a closet walled up . 
in the sperm fishery , this is perhaps one of the most remarkable 
UNK in all the business of whaling . one day the planks stream with 
freshets of blood and oil ; on the sacred quarter - deck enormous masses of 
the whale ' s head are profanely piled ; great rusty casks lie about , as 
in a brewery yard ; the smoke from the try - works has UNK all the 
bulwarks ; the mariners go about UNK with unctuousness ; the entire 
ship seems great leviathan himself ; while on all hands the din is 
UNK . 
but a day or two after , you look about you , and prick your ears in this 
self - same ship ; and were it not for the tell - tale boats and try - works , 
you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel , with a 
most UNK neat commander . the unmanufactured sperm oil UNK 
a singularly UNK virtue . this is the reason why the decks never 
look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil . besides , 
from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale , a potent lye is 
readily made ; and whenever any UNK from the back of the whale 
remains clinging to the side , that lye quickly UNK it . hands 
go diligently along the bulwarks , and with buckets of water and rags 
UNK them to their full UNK . the soot is brushed from the lower 
rigging . all the numerous implements which have been in use are likewise 
faithfully cleansed and put away . the great hatch is UNK and placed 
upon the try - works , completely hiding the pots ; every cask is out of 
sight ; all tackles are coiled in unseen nooks ; and when by the combined 
and UNK UNK of almost the entire ship ' s company , the 
whole of this conscientious duty is at last concluded , then the crew 
themselves proceed to their own UNK ; UNK themselves from top to 
UNK ; and finally issue to the immaculate deck , fresh and all aglow , as 
UNK new - leaped from out the daintiest holland . 
now , with elated step , they pace the planks in twos and threes , and 
humorously UNK of UNK , sofas , UNK , and fine UNK ; 
propose to mat the deck ; think of having hanging to the top ; object not 
to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle . to hint to 
such UNK mariners of oil , and bone , and blubber , were little short 
of UNK . they know not the thing you distantly UNK to . away , and 
bring us napkins ! 
but mark : aloft there , at the three mast heads , stand three men intent 
on spying out more whales , which , if caught , infallibly will again 
soil the old oaken furniture , and drop at least one small grease - spot 
somewhere . yes ; and many is the time , when , after the severest 
UNK UNK , which know no night ; continuing straight through 
for ninety - six hours ; when from the boat , where they have swelled their 
wrists with all day rowing on the line , - they only step to the deck to 
carry vast chains , and heave the heavy windlass , and cut and UNK , yea , 
and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined 
fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try - works ; when , on the 
heel of all this , they have finally bestirred themselves to UNK the 
ship , and make a UNK dairy room of it ; many is the time the poor 
fellows , just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks , are startled by 
the cry of " there she blows ! " and away they fly to fight another whale , 
and go through the whole weary thing again . oh ! my friends , but this 
is man - killing ! yet this is life . for hardly have we mortals by long 
UNK extracted from this world ' s vast bulk its small but valuable 
sperm ; and then , with weary patience , cleansed ourselves from its 
UNK , and learned to live here in clean UNK of the soul ; 
hardly is this done , when - there she blows ! - the ghost is spouted up , 
and away we sail to fight some other world , and go through young life ' s 
old UNK again . 
oh ! the UNK ! oh ! UNK , that in bright greece , two 
thousand years ago , did die , so good , so wise , so mild ; i sailed with 
thee along the peruvian coast last voyage - and , foolish as i am , taught 
thee , a green simple boy , how to splice a rope ! 
chapter UNK . the doubloon . 
ere now it has been related how ahab was wont to pace his quarter - deck , 
taking regular turns at either limit , the binnacle and mainmast ; but 
in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been 
added how that sometimes in these walks , when most plunged in his mood , 
he was wont to pause in turn at each spot , and stand there strangely 
eyeing the particular object before him . when he UNK before the 
binnacle , with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass , 
that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his 
purpose ; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast , 
then , as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin 
there , he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness , only dashed 
with a certain wild longing , if not UNK . 
but one morning , turning to pass the doubloon , he seemed to be newly 
attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it , as 
though now for the first time beginning to UNK for himself in 
some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them . and some 
certain significance lurks in all things , else all things are little 
worth , and the round world itself but an empty UNK , except to sell by 
the UNK , as they do hills about UNK , to fill up some UNK in 
the milky way . 
now this doubloon was of purest , virgin gold , UNK somewhere out of the 
heart of gorgeous hills , whence , east and west , over golden sands , the 
head - waters of many a UNK flows . and though now nailed UNK all 
the UNK of iron bolts and the UNK of copper spikes , yet , 
UNK and immaculate to any UNK , it still preserved its quito 
glow . nor , though placed UNK a ruthless crew and every hour passed 
by ruthless hands , and through the UNK nights shrouded with thick 
darkness which might cover any UNK approach , nevertheless every 
sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last . for it was 
set apart and UNK to one awe - striking end ; and however UNK 
in their sailor ways , one and all , the mariners UNK it as the white 
whale ' s UNK . sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch by 
night , wondering whose it was to be at last , and whether he would ever 
live to spend it . 
now those noble golden coins of south america are as UNK of the sun 
and tropic token - pieces . here palms , UNK , and UNK ; sun ' s UNK 
and stars ; UNK , horns - of - plenty , and rich UNK waving , are in 
UNK UNK stamped ; so that the precious gold seems almost to 
derive an added UNK and UNK glories , by passing through 
those fancy UNK , so UNK poetic . 
it so chanced that the doubloon of the pequod was a most wealthy example 
of these things . on its round border it bore the letters , UNK UNK 
UNK : quito . so this bright coin came from a country planted in the 
middle of the world , and beneath the great equator , and named after it ; 
and it had been cast midway up the andes , in the unwaning UNK that 
knows no UNK . zoned by those letters you saw the likeness of three 
andes ' UNK ; from one a flame ; a tower on another ; on the third a 
UNK cock ; while UNK over all was a UNK of the UNK 
zodiac , the signs all marked with their usual UNK , and the 
UNK sun entering the UNK point at libra . 
before this equatorial coin , ahab , not unobserved by others , was now 
pausing . 
" there ' s something ever egotistical in mountain - tops and towers , and 
all other grand and lofty things ; look here , - three peaks as proud as 
UNK . the firm tower , that is ahab ; the volcano , that is ahab ; the 
courageous , the undaunted , and UNK fowl , that , too , is ahab ; all 
are ahab ; and this round gold is but the image of the UNK globe , 
which , like a UNK ' s glass , to each and every man in turn but 
UNK back his own mysterious self . great pains , small UNK for those 
who ask the world to solve them ; it cannot solve itself . methinks now 
this UNK sun wears a ruddy face ; but see ! aye , he enters the sign 
of storms , the equinox ! and but six months before he wheeled out of a 
former equinox at aries ! from storm to storm ! so be it , then . born in 
throes , ' tis fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs ! so be 
it , then ! here ' s stout stuff for woe to work on . so be it , then . " 
" no fairy fingers can have pressed the gold , but devil ' s UNK must 
have left their UNK there since yesterday , " murmured starbuck 
to himself , leaning against the bulwarks . " the old man seems to read 
belshazzar ' s awful UNK . i have never marked the coin UNK . 
he goes below ; let me read . a dark valley between three mighty , 
heaven - UNK peaks , that almost seem the trinity , in some faint 
earthly symbol . so in this vale of death , god UNK us round ; and over 
all our gloom , the sun of UNK still UNK a UNK and a 
hope . if we bend down our eyes , the dark vale shows her mouldy soil ; 
but if we lift them , the bright sun meets our glance half way , to cheer . 
yet , oh , the great sun is no UNK ; and if , at midnight , we would fain 
snatch some sweet solace from him , we gaze for him in vain ! this coin 
speaks UNK , mildly , truly , but still sadly to me . i will quit it , 
lest truth shake me UNK . " 
" there now ' s the old mogul , " soliloquized stubb by the try - works , " he ' s 
been UNK it ; and there goes starbuck from the same , and both with 
faces which i should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long . 
and all from looking at a piece of gold , which did i have it now on 
negro hill or in UNK ' s hook , i ' d not look at it very long ere 
spending it . humph ! in my poor , insignificant opinion , i regard this as 
queer . i have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings ; your doubloons 
of old spain , your doubloons of peru , your doubloons of chili , your 
doubloons of bolivia , your doubloons of UNK ; with plenty of gold 
UNK and UNK , and joes , and half joes , and quarter joes . what 
then should there be in this doubloon of the equator that is so killing 
wonderful ? by UNK ! let me read it once . halloa ! here ' s signs and 
wonders truly ! that , now , is what old bowditch in his UNK calls the 
zodiac , and what my UNK below calls UNK . i ' ll get the UNK and 
as i have heard devils can be raised with UNK ' s arithmetic , i ' ll try 
my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer UNK here with 
the massachusetts calendar . here ' s the book . let ' s see now . signs and 
wonders ; and the sun , he ' s always among ' em . hem , hem , hem ; here they 
are - here they go - all alive : - aries , or the ram ; taurus , or the bull 
and UNK ! here ' s UNK himself , or the twins . well ; the sun he 
wheels among ' em . aye , here on the coin he ' s just crossing the threshold 
between two of twelve sitting - rooms all in a ring . book ! you lie there ; 
the fact is , you books must know your places . you ' ll do to give us the 
bare words and facts , but we come in to supply the thoughts . that ' s my 
small experience , so far as the massachusetts calendar , and bowditch ' s 
UNK , and UNK ' s arithmetic go . signs and wonders , eh ? pity if 
there is nothing wonderful in signs , and significant in wonders ! there ' s 
a clue somewhere ; wait a bit ; hist - hark ! by jove , i have it ! look you , 
doubloon , your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter ; 
and now i ' ll read it off , straight out of the book . come , UNK ! to 
begin : there ' s aries , or the ram - UNK dog , he UNK us ; then , 
taurus , or the bull - he bumps us the first thing ; then UNK , or the 
twins - that is , virtue and vice ; we try to reach virtue , when lo ! comes 
UNK the crab , and drags us back ; and here , going from virtue , leo , 
a roaring lion , lies in the path - he gives a few fierce UNK and UNK 
UNK with his paw ; we escape , and hail UNK , the virgin ! that ' s our 
first love ; we UNK and think to be happy for aye , when UNK comes 
libra , or the scales - UNK weighed and found wanting ; and while we 
are very sad about that , lord ! how we suddenly jump , as UNK , or the 
UNK , UNK us in the rear ; we are UNK the wound , when whang 
come the UNK all round ; UNK , or the archer , is UNK 
himself . as we UNK out the UNK , stand aside ! here ' s the 
battering - ram , UNK , or the goat ; full UNK , he comes rushing , 
and headlong we are tossed ; when aquarius , or the water - bearer , pours 
out his whole UNK and UNK us ; and to wind up with UNK , or the 
fishes , we sleep . there ' s a sermon now , UNK in high heaven , and the 
sun goes through it every year , and yet comes out of it all alive and 
hearty . UNK he , aloft there , wheels through toil and trouble ; and 
so , UNK here , does jolly stubb . oh , jolly ' s the word for aye ! adieu , 
doubloon ! but stop ; here comes little king - post ; dodge round the 
try - works , now , and let ' s hear what he ' ll have to say . there ; he ' s 
before it ; he ' ll out with something presently . so , so ; he ' s beginning . " 
" i see nothing here , but a round thing made of gold , and whoever raises 
a certain whale , this round thing belongs to him . so , what ' s all this 
staring been about ? it is worth sixteen dollars , that ' s true ; and at 
two cents the UNK , that ' s nine hundred and sixty UNK . i won ' t smoke 
dirty pipes like stubb , but i like UNK , and here ' s nine hundred and 
sixty of them ; so here goes flask aloft to spy ' em out . " 
" shall i call that wise or foolish , now ; if it be really wise it has a 
foolish look to it ; yet , if it be really foolish , then has it a sort 
of UNK look to it . but , avast ; here comes our old manxman - the old 
hearse - driver , he must have been , that is , before he took to the sea . he 
UNK up before the doubloon ; halloa , and goes round on the other side 
of the mast ; why , there ' s a horse - shoe nailed on that side ; and now he ' s 
back again ; what does that mean ? hark ! he ' s muttering - voice like an old 
worn - out coffee - UNK . prick ears , and listen ! " 
" if the white whale be raised , it must be in a month and a day , when 
the sun stands in some one of these signs . i ' ve studied signs , and know 
their marks ; they were taught me two score years ago , by the old UNK 
in UNK . now , in what sign will the sun then be ? the horse - shoe 
sign ; for there it is , right opposite the gold . and what ' s the 
horse - shoe sign ? the lion is the horse - shoe sign - the roaring and 
devouring lion . ship , old ship ! my old head shakes to think of thee . " 
" there ' s another rendering now ; but still one text . all sorts of men 
in one kind of world , you see . dodge again ! here comes queequeg - all 
tattooing - looks like the signs of the zodiac himself . what says the 
cannibal ? as i live he ' s comparing notes ; looking at his thigh bone ; 
thinks the sun is in the thigh , or in the calf , or in the bowels , i 
suppose , as the old women talk surgeon ' s UNK in the back country . 
and by jove , he ' s found something there in the vicinity of his thigh - i 
guess it ' s UNK , or the archer . no : he don ' t know what to make 
of the doubloon ; he takes it for an old button off some king ' s trowsers . 
but , aside again ! here comes that ghost - devil , fedallah ; tail coiled out 
of sight as usual , oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual . what does he 
say , with that look of his ? ah , only makes a sign to the sign and bows 
himself ; there is a sun on the coin - fire worshipper , depend upon it . 
ho ! more and more . this way comes pip - poor boy ! would he had died , 
or i ; he ' s half horrible to me . he too has been watching all of these 
UNK - myself included - and look now , he comes to read , with that 
unearthly idiot face . stand away again and hear him . hark ! " 
" i look , you look , he looks ; we look , ye look , they look . " 
" upon my soul , he ' s been studying UNK ' s UNK ! improving his mind , 
poor fellow ! but what ' s that he says now - hist ! " 
" i look , you look , he looks ; we look , ye look , they look . " 
" why , he ' s getting it by heart - hist ! again . " 
" i look , you look , he looks ; we look , ye look , they look . " 
" well , that ' s funny . " 
" and i , you , and he ; and we , ye , and they , are all UNK ; and i ' m a crow , 
especially when i stand a ' top of this pine tree here . caw ! caw ! caw ! 
caw ! caw ! caw ! ain ' t i a crow ? and where ' s the UNK - crow ? there he 
stands ; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers , and two more UNK 
into the sleeves of an old jacket . " 
" wonder if he means me ? - UNK ! - poor lad ! - i could go hang 
myself . any way , for the present , i ' ll quit pip ' s vicinity . i can stand 
the rest , for they have plain UNK ; but he ' s too crazy - witty for my 
sanity . so , so , i leave him muttering . " 
" here ' s the ship ' s navel , this doubloon here , and they are all on fire 
to UNK it . but , UNK your navel , and what ' s the consequence ? then 
again , if it stays here , that is ugly , too , for when aught ' s nailed to 
the mast it ' s a sign that things grow desperate . ha , ha ! old ahab ! 
the white whale ; he ' ll nail ye ! this is a pine tree . my father , in old 
tolland UNK , cut down a pine tree once , and found a silver ring grown 
over in it ; some old UNK ' s wedding ring . how did it get there ? and 
so they ' ll say in the resurrection , when they come to fish up this old 
mast , and find a doubloon lodged in it , with bedded UNK for the 
shaggy bark . oh , the gold ! the precious , precious , gold ! the green 
miser ' ll UNK ye soon ! hish ! hish ! god goes ' mong the worlds 
UNK . cook ! ho , cook ! and cook us ! jenny ! hey , hey , hey , hey , 
hey , jenny , jenny ! and get your hoe - cake done ! " 
chapter UNK . leg and arm . 
the pequod , of nantucket , meets the samuel enderby , of london . 
" ship , ahoy ! hast seen the white whale ? " 
so cried ahab , once more hailing a ship showing english colours , bearing 
down under the stern . trumpet to mouth , the old man was standing in his 
hoisted quarter - boat , his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger 
captain , who was carelessly reclining in his own boat ' s bow . he was 
a darkly - UNK , burly , good - natured , fine - looking man , of sixty or 
UNK , dressed in a spacious roundabout , that hung round him in 
UNK of blue pilot - cloth ; and one empty arm of this jacket streamed 
behind him like the UNK arm of a UNK ' s UNK . 
" hast seen the white whale ! " 
" see you this ? " and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it , 
he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone , terminating in a wooden head 
like a UNK . 
" man my boat ! " cried ahab , impetuously , and tossing about the oars near 
him - " stand by to lower ! " 
in less than a minute , without quitting his little craft , he and his 
crew were dropped to the water , and were soon alongside of the stranger . 
but here a curious difficulty presented itself . in the excitement of the 
moment , ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never 
once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own , and then it was 
always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to 
the pequod , and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other 
vessel at a moment ' s warning . now , it is no very easy matter 
for anybody - except those who are almost UNK used to it , like 
whalemen - to UNK up a ship ' s side from a boat on the open sea ; for 
the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks , and 
then UNK drop it half way down to the kelson . so , UNK 
of one leg , and the strange ship of course being altogether unsupplied 
with the kindly UNK , ahab now found himself UNK UNK to a 
clumsy landsman again ; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain UNK height 
he could hardly hope to attain . 
it has before been hinted , perhaps , that every little untoward 
circumstance that befell him , and which indirectly sprang from his 
luckless mishap , almost invariably irritated or exasperated ahab . and 
in the present instance , all this was heightened by the sight of the 
two officers of the strange ship , leaning over the side , by the 
perpendicular ladder of nailed UNK there , and swinging towards him a 
pair of UNK - ornamented man - ropes ; for at first they did not seem 
to bethink them that a one - legged man must be too much of a cripple to 
use their sea UNK . but this awkwardness only lasted a minute , 
because the strange captain , observing at a glance how affairs stood , 
cried out , " i see , i see ! - avast heaving there ! jump , boys , and swing 
over the cutting - tackle . " 
as good luck would have it , they had had a whale alongside a day or two 
previous , and the great tackles were still aloft , and the massive curved 
blubber - hook , now clean and dry , was still attached to the end . this 
was quickly lowered to ahab , who at once comprehending it all , slid his 
solitary thigh into the UNK of the hook ( it was like sitting in the 
fluke of an anchor , or the crotch of an apple tree ) , and then giving the 
word , held himself fast , and at the same time also helped to hoist his 
own weight , by pulling hand - over - hand upon one of the running parts of 
the tackle . soon he was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks , and 
gently landed upon the capstan head . with his ivory arm frankly thrust 
forth in welcome , the other captain advanced , and ahab , putting out his 
ivory leg , and crossing the ivory arm ( like two sword - fish blades ) 
cried out in his walrus way , " aye , aye , hearty ! let us shake bones 
together ! - an arm and a leg ! - an arm that never can UNK , d ' ye 
see ; and a leg that never can run . where did ' st thou see the white 
whale ? - how long ago ? " 
" the white whale , " said the englishman , pointing his ivory arm towards 
the east , and taking a UNK sight along it , as if it had been a 
telescope ; " there i saw him , on the line , last season . " 
" and he took that arm off , did he ? " asked ahab , now sliding down from 
the capstan , and resting on the englishman ' s shoulder , as he did so . 
" aye , he was the cause of it , at least ; and that leg , too ? " 
" spin me the yarn , " said ahab ; " how was it ? " 
" it was the first time in my life that i ever UNK on the line , " 
began the englishman . " i was ignorant of the white whale at that time . 
well , one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales , and my boat 
fastened to one of them ; a regular circus horse he was , too , that went 
milling and milling round so , that my boat ' s crew could only UNK dish , 
by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale . presently up UNK 
from the bottom of the sea a UNK great whale , with a milky - white 
head and hump , all crows ' feet and wrinkles . " 
" it was he , it was he ! " cried ahab , suddenly letting out his suspended 
breath . 
" and harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin . " 
" aye , aye - they were mine - my irons , " cried ahab , UNK - " but on ! " 
" give me a chance , then , " said the englishman , good - humoredly . " well , 
this old great - UNK , with the white head and hump , runs all UNK 
into the pod , and goes to snapping furiously at my fast - line ! 
" aye , i see ! - wanted to part it ; free the fast - fish - an old trick - i 
know him . " 
" how it was exactly , " continued the one - armed commander , " i do not know ; 
but in biting the line , it got foul of his teeth , caught there somehow ; 
but we didn ' t know it then ; so that when we afterwards pulled on the 
line , UNK we came plump on to his hump ! instead of the other whale ' s ; 
that went off to windward , all UNK . seeing how matters stood , and 
what a noble great whale it was - the noblest and UNK i ever saw , 
sir , in my life - i resolved to capture him , spite of the boiling rage 
he seemed to be in . and thinking the UNK - hazard line would get loose , or 
the tooth it was UNK to might draw ( for i have a devil of a boat ' s 
crew for a pull on a whale - line ) ; seeing all this , i say , i jumped 
into my first mate ' s boat - mr . mounttop ' s here ( by the way , 
captain - mounttop ; mounttop - the captain ) ; - as i was saying , i jumped 
into mounttop ' s boat , which , d ' ye see , was gunwale and gunwale 
with mine , then ; and snatching the first harpoon , let this old 
great - UNK have it . but , lord , look you , sir - hearts and souls 
alive , man - the next instant , in a UNK , i was blind as a UNK - both 
eyes out - all UNK and UNK with black foam - the whale ' s tail 
UNK straight up out of it , perpendicular in the air , like a marble 
UNK . no use UNK all , then ; but as i was groping at UNK , with 
a blinding sun , all crown - UNK ; as i was groping , i say , after the 
second iron , to toss it overboard - down comes the tail like a lima 
tower , cutting my boat in two , leaving each half in splinters ; and , 
flukes first , the white hump backed through the wreck , as though it was 
all chips . we all struck out . to escape his terrible UNK , i seized 
hold of my harpoon - pole sticking in him , and for a moment clung to that 
like a sucking fish . but a combing sea dashed me off , and at the same 
instant , the fish , taking one good dart forwards , went down like a 
flash ; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near me 
caught me here " ( clapping his hand just below his shoulder ) ; " yes , 
caught me just here , i say , and bore me down to hell ' s flames , i was 
thinking ; when , when , all of a sudden , thank the good god , the barb UNK 
its way along the flesh - clear along the whole length of my arm - came 
out nigh my wrist , and up i floated ; - and that gentleman there will tell 
you the rest ( by the way , captain - dr . bunger , ship ' s surgeon : bunger , 
my lad , - the captain ) . now , bunger boy , spin your part of the yarn . " 
the professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out , had been all the 
time standing near them , with nothing specific visible , to UNK his 
gentlemanly rank on board . his face was an exceedingly round but sober 
one ; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt , and patched 
trowsers ; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a 
UNK he held in one hand , and a UNK - box held in the other , 
occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two 
crippled captains . but , at his superior ' s UNK of him to ahab , 
he politely bowed , and straightway went on to do his captain ' s bidding . 
" it was a shocking bad wound , " began the whale - surgeon ; " and , taking my 
advice , captain boomer here , stood our old sammy - " 
" samuel enderby is the name of my ship , " interrupted the one - armed 
captain , addressing ahab ; " go on , boy . " 
" stood our old sammy off to the northward , to get out of the blazing hot 
weather there on the line . but it was no use - i did all i could ; sat up 
with him nights ; was very severe with him in the matter of diet - " 
" oh , very severe ! " UNK in the patient himself ; then suddenly altering 
his voice , " drinking hot rum UNK with me every night , till he 
couldn ' t see to put on the UNK ; and sending me to bed , half seas 
over , about three o ' clock in the morning . oh , ye stars ! he sat up with 
me indeed , and was very severe in my diet . oh ! a great UNK , and very 
UNK severe , is dr . bunger . ( bunger , you dog , laugh out ! why 
don ' t ye ? you know you ' re a precious jolly rascal . ) but , heave ahead , 
boy , i ' d rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other man . " 
" my captain , you must have ere this perceived , UNK sir " - said the 
UNK godly - looking bunger , slightly bowing to ahab - " is apt to 
be facetious at times ; he UNK us many UNK things of that sort . but 
i may as well say - en UNK , as the french remark - that i myself - that 
is to say , jack bunger , late of the reverend UNK - am a strict UNK 
UNK man ; i never drink - " 
" water ! " cried the captain ; " he never drinks it ; it ' s a sort of fits to 
him ; fresh water throws him into the UNK ; but go on - go on with 
the arm story . " 
" yes , i may as well , " said the surgeon , coolly . " i was about observing , 
sir , before captain boomer ' s facetious UNK , that spite of my 
best and severest endeavors , the wound kept getting worse and worse ; the 
truth was , sir , it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw ; more 
than two feet and several inches long . i measured it with the lead line . 
in short , it grew black ; i knew what was threatened , and off it came . 
but i had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there ; that thing is 
against all rule " - pointing at it with the UNK - " that is the 
captain ' s work , not mine ; he ordered the carpenter to make it ; he had 
that club - hammer there put to the end , to UNK some one ' s brains 
out with , i suppose , as he tried mine once . he flies into diabolical 
UNK sometimes . do ye see this dent , sir " - removing his hat , and 
UNK aside his hair , and UNK a bowl - like cavity in his skull , 
but which bore not the slightest UNK trace , or any token of ever 
having been a wound - " well , the captain there will tell you how that 
came here ; he knows . " 
" no , i don ' t , " said the captain , " but his mother did ; he was born with 
it . oh , you solemn UNK , you - you bunger ! was there ever such another 
bunger in the watery world ? bunger , when you die , you ought to die in 
pickle , you dog ; you should be preserved to future ages , you rascal . " 
" what became of the white whale ? " now cried ahab , who thus far had been 
impatiently listening to this by - play between the two UNK . 
" oh ! " cried the one - armed captain , " oh , yes ! well ; after he sounded , 
we didn ' t see him again for some time ; in fact , as i before hinted , i 
didn ' t then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick , till 
some time afterwards , when coming back to the line , we heard about moby 
dick - as some call him - and then i knew it was he . " 
" did ' st thou cross his wake again ? " 
" twice . " 
" but could not fasten ? " 
" didn ' t want to try to : ain ' t one limb enough ? what should i do without 
this other arm ? and i ' m thinking moby dick doesn ' t bite so much as he 
swallows . " 
" well , then , " interrupted bunger , " give him your left arm for UNK to 
get the right . do you know , gentlemen " - very gravely and UNK 
bowing to each captain in succession - " do you know , gentlemen , that the 
UNK organs of the whale are so UNK UNK by divine 
providence , that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest 
even a man ' s arm ? and he knows it too . so that what you take for the 
white whale ' s malice is only his awkwardness . for he never means 
to swallow a single limb ; he only thinks to UNK by UNK . but 
sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow , UNK a patient of mine 
in UNK , that making believe swallow jack - knives , once upon a time let 
one drop into him in good earnest , and there it stayed for a twelvemonth 
or more ; when i gave him an UNK , and he heaved it up in small UNK , 
d ' ye see . no possible way for him to digest that jack - knife , and fully 
incorporate it into his general bodily system . yes , captain boomer , if 
you are quick enough about it , and have a mind to UNK one arm for the 
sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to the other , why in that 
case the arm is yours ; only let the whale have another chance at you 
shortly , that ' s all . " 
" no , thank ye , bunger , " said the english captain , " he ' s welcome to the 
arm he has , since i can ' t help it , and didn ' t know him then ; but not to 
another one . no more white whales for me ; i ' ve lowered for him once , and 
that has satisfied me . there would be great glory in killing him , i know 
that ; and there is a ship - load of precious sperm in him , but , hark ye , 
he ' s best let alone ; don ' t you think so , captain ? " - glancing at the 
ivory leg . 
" he is . but he will still be hunted , for all that . what is best let 
alone , that accursed thing is not always what least UNK . he ' s all a 
UNK ! how long since thou saw ' st him last ? which way heading ? " 
" bless my soul , and curse the foul fiend ' s , " cried bunger , UNK 
walking round ahab , and like a dog , strangely snuffing ; " this man ' s 
blood - bring the UNK ! - it ' s at the boiling point ! - his pulse 
makes these planks beat ! - sir ! " - taking a UNK from his pocket , and 
drawing near to ahab ' s arm . 
" avast ! " roared ahab , dashing him against the bulwarks - " man the boat ! 
which way heading ? " 
" good god ! " cried the english captain , to whom the question was put . 
" what ' s the matter ? he was heading east , i think . - is your captain 
crazy ? " whispering fedallah . 
but fedallah , putting a finger on his lip , slid over the bulwarks to 
take the boat ' s steering oar , and ahab , swinging the cutting - tackle 
towards him , commanded the ship ' s sailors to stand by to lower . 
in a moment he was standing in the boat ' s stern , and the manilla men 
were springing to their oars . in vain the english captain hailed him . 
with back to the stranger ship , and face set like a UNK to his own , 
ahab stood upright till alongside of the pequod . 
chapter UNK . the decanter . 
ere the english ship UNK from sight , be it set down here , that 
she hailed from london , and was named after the late samuel enderby , 
merchant of that city , the original of the famous whaling house of 
enderby UNK sons ; a house which in my poor whaleman ' s opinion , comes not 
far behind the united royal houses of the UNK and UNK , in point 
of real historical interest . how long , prior to the year of our 
lord 1775 , this great whaling house was in existence , my numerous 
fish - UNK do not make plain ; but in that year ( 1775 ) it fitted 
out the first english ships that ever regularly hunted the sperm whale ; 
though for some score of years previous ( ever since UNK ) our valiant 
coffins and UNK of nantucket and the vineyard had in large fleets 
pursued that leviathan , but only in the north and south atlantic : not 
elsewhere . be it distinctly recorded here , that the nantucketers were 
the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great sperm 
whale ; and that for half a century they were the only people of the 
whole globe who so harpooned him . 
in UNK , a fine ship , the amelia , fitted out for the express purpose , 
and at the sole charge of the vigorous UNK , boldly rounded cape 
horn , and was the first among the nations to lower a whale - boat of any 
sort in the great south sea . the voyage was a UNK and lucky one ; 
and returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm , the 
amelia ' s example was soon followed by other ships , english and american , 
and thus the vast sperm whale grounds of the pacific were thrown open . 
but not content with this good deed , the indefatigable house again 
bestirred itself : samuel and all his sons - how many , their mother only 
knows - and under their immediate UNK , and partly , i think , at their 
expense , the british UNK was induced to send the sloop - of - war 
rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the south sea . commanded 
by a naval post - captain , the rattler made a rattling voyage of it , and 
did some service ; how much does not appear . but this is not all . in 
UNK , the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own , to 
go on a UNK cruise to the remote waters of japan . that ship - well 
called the " syren " - made a noble UNK cruise ; and it was thus 
that the great japanese whaling ground first became generally known . 
the syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a captain coffin , a 
nantucketer . 
all honour to the UNK , therefore , whose house , i think , exists to 
the present day ; though doubtless the original samuel must long ago have 
slipped his cable for the great south sea of the other world . 
the ship named after him was worthy of the honour , being a very fast 
UNK and a noble craft every way . i boarded her once at midnight 
somewhere off the patagonian coast , and UNK good flip down in the 
forecastle . it was a fine gam we had , and they were all UNK - every 
soul on board . a short life to them , and a jolly death . and that fine 
gam i had - long , very long after old ahab touched her planks with his 
ivory heel - it minds me of the noble , solid , UNK hospitality of that 
ship ; and may my parson forget me , and the devil remember me , if i ever 
lose sight of it . flip ? did i say we had flip ? yes , and we UNK it 
at the rate of ten gallons the hour ; and when the squall came ( for it ' s 
UNK off there by UNK ) , and all hands - visitors and all - were 
called to reef topsails , we were so top - heavy that we had to swing each 
other aloft in UNK ; and we ignorantly UNK the skirts of our 
jackets into the sails , so that we hung there , reefed fast in the 
howling gale , a warning example to all drunken UNK . however , the masts 
did not go overboard ; and by and by we UNK down , so sober , that we 
had to pass the flip again , though the savage salt spray bursting down 
the forecastle scuttle , rather too much UNK and UNK it to my 
taste . 
the beef was fine - tough , but with body in it . they said it was 
bull - beef ; others , that it was dromedary beef ; but i do not know , for 
certain , how that was . they had dumplings too ; small , but substantial , 
symmetrically globular , and UNK dumplings . i fancied that you 
could feel them , and roll them about in you after they were swallowed . 
if you stooped over too far forward , you UNK their pitching out 
of you like billiard - balls . the bread - but that couldn ' t be helped ; 
besides , it was an UNK - UNK ; in short , the bread contained the 
only fresh fare they had . but the forecastle was not very light , and it 
was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it . but all 
in all , taking her from truck to helm , considering the dimensions of the 
cook ' s boilers , including his own live parchment boilers ; fore and aft , 
i say , the samuel enderby was a jolly ship ; of good fare and plenty ; 
fine flip and strong ; crack fellows all , and capital from boot heels to 
hat - band . 
but why was it , think ye , that the samuel enderby , and some other 
english whalers i know of - not all though - were such famous , hospitable 
ships ; that passed round the beef , and the bread , and the can , and the 
joke ; and were not soon weary of eating , and drinking , and laughing ? 
i will tell you . the abounding good cheer of these english whalers 
is matter for historical research . nor have i been at all sparing of 
historical whale research , when it has seemed needed . 
the english were UNK in the whale fishery by the UNK , 
UNK , and UNK ; from whom they derived many terms still extant 
in the fishery ; and what is yet more , their fat old UNK , 
touching plenty to eat and drink . for , as a general thing , the english 
merchant - ship UNK her crew ; but not so the english whaler . hence , in 
the english , this thing of whaling good cheer is not UNK and natural , 
but UNK and particular ; and , therefore , must have some special 
origin , which is here pointed out , and will be still further elucidated . 
during my researches in the leviathanic histories , i UNK upon an 
ancient dutch volume , which , by the UNK whaling smell of it , i 
knew must be about whalers . the title was , " dan coopman , " wherefore i 
concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some amsterdam 
cooper in the fishery , as every whale ship must carry its cooper . i was 
UNK in this opinion by seeing that it was the UNK of one 
" UNK UNK . " but my friend dr . snodhead , a very learned man , 
professor of low dutch and high german in the UNK of santa UNK and 
st . UNK ' s , to whom i handed the work for UNK , giving him a box 
of sperm candles for his trouble - this same dr . snodhead , so soon as he 
UNK the book , assured me that " dan coopman " did not mean " the cooper , " 
but " the merchant . " in short , this ancient and learned low dutch book 
treated of the commerce of holland ; and , among other subjects , contained 
a very interesting account of its whale fishery . and in this chapter it 
was , headed , " smeer , " or " fat , " that i found a long detailed list of the 
outfits for the UNK and UNK of 180 sail of dutch whalemen ; from 
which list , as UNK by dr . snodhead , i UNK the following : 
400 , 000 lbs . of beef . 60 , 000 lbs . UNK UNK . UNK , 000 lbs . of stock 
fish . 550 , 000 lbs . of biscuit . 72 , 000 lbs . of soft bread . 2 , 800 UNK 
of butter . 20 , 000 lbs . texel UNK leyden cheese . UNK , 000 lbs . cheese 
( probably an inferior article ) . 550 UNK of UNK . 10 , 800 barrels of 
beer . 
most UNK tables are UNK dry in the reading ; not so in 
the present case , however , where the reader is flooded with whole pipes , 
barrels , UNK , and gills of good gin and good cheer . 
at the time , i UNK three days to the UNK digesting of all 
this beer , beef , and bread , during which many profound thoughts were 
incidentally suggested to me , capable of a UNK and UNK 
application ; and , furthermore , i UNK supplementary tables of my 
own , touching the probable quantity of stock - fish , etc . , consumed by 
every low dutch harpooneer in that ancient greenland and spitzbergen 
whale fishery . in the first place , the amount of butter , and texel and 
leyden cheese consumed , seems amazing . i impute it , though , to their 
naturally unctuous UNK , being UNK still more unctuous by the 
nature of their vocation , and especially by their pursuing their game 
in those frigid polar seas , on the very coasts of that esquimaux country 
where the convivial natives pledge each other in UNK of train oil . 
the quantity of beer , too , is very large , 10 , 800 barrels . now , as those 
polar fisheries could only be UNK in the short summer of that 
UNK , so that the whole cruise of one of these dutch whalemen , 
including the short voyage to and from the spitzbergen sea , did not much 
exceed three months , say , and reckoning 30 men to each of their fleet 
of 180 sail , we have 5 , 400 low dutch seamen in all ; therefore , i say , 
we have precisely two barrels of beer per man , for a twelve weeks ' 
allowance , UNK of his fair proportion of that 550 UNK of gin . 
now , whether these gin and beer harpooneers , so UNK as one might 
fancy them to have been , were the right sort of men to stand up in 
a boat ' s head , and take good aim at flying whales ; this would seem 
somewhat UNK . yet they did aim at them , and hit them too . but 
this was very far north , be it remembered , where beer UNK well with 
the constitution ; upon the equator , in our southern fishery , beer would 
be apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast - head and UNK in his 
boat ; and UNK loss might ensue to nantucket and new bedford . 
but no more ; enough has been said to show that the old dutch whalers 
of two or three centuries ago were high livers ; and that the english 
whalers have not UNK so excellent an example . for , say they , when 
cruising in an empty ship , if you can get nothing better out of the 
world , get a good dinner out of it , at least . and this UNK the 
decanter . 
chapter UNK . a bower in the arsacides . 
hitherto , in UNK UNK of the sperm whale , i have chiefly 
UNK upon the marvels of his outer aspect ; or separately and in detail 
upon some few interior UNK features . but to a large and thorough 
sweeping comprehension of him , it behooves me now to UNK him still 
further , and UNK the points of his hose , UNK his UNK , 
and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost 
bones , set him before you in his UNK ; that is to say , in his 
unconditional skeleton . 
but how now , ishmael ? how is it , that you , a mere oarsman in the 
fishery , pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the 
whale ? did erudite stubb , mounted upon your capstan , UNK UNK 
on the anatomy of the cetacea ; and by help of the windlass , hold up a 
specimen rib for exhibition ? explain thyself , ishmael . can you land 
a full - grown whale on your deck for UNK , as a cook UNK a 
roast - pig ? surely not . a veritable witness have you hitherto been , 
ishmael ; but have a care how you seize the privilege of jonah alone ; 
the privilege of UNK upon the joists and beams ; the rafters , 
ridge - pole , sleepers , and under - UNK , making up the frame - work of 
leviathan ; and belike of the tallow - UNK , dairy - rooms , UNK , and 
UNK in his bowels . 
i confess , that since jonah , few whalemen have penetrated very far 
beneath the skin of the adult whale ; nevertheless , i have been blessed 
with an opportunity to dissect him in UNK . in a ship i belonged 
to , a small cub sperm whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his 
poke or bag , to make UNK for the barbs of the harpoons , and for the 
heads of the lances . think you i let that chance go , without using my 
boat - hatchet and jack - knife , and breaking the seal and reading all the 
contents of that young cub ? 
and as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their 
gigantic , full grown development , for that rare knowledge i am UNK 
to my late royal friend tranquo , king of tranque , one of the arsacides . 
for being at tranque , years ago , when attached to the trading - ship dey 
of UNK , i was invited to spend part of the arsacidean UNK with 
the lord of tranque , at his retired palm UNK at pupella ; a sea - side 
glen not very far distant from what our sailors called bamboo - town , his 
capital . 
among many other fine qualities , my royal friend tranquo , being gifted 
with a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu , had brought 
together in pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his 
people could UNK ; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices , 
chiselled shells , inlaid spears , costly paddles , aromatic canoes ; 
and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders , the 
wonder - freighted , tribute - rendering waves had cast upon his shores . 
chief among these latter was a great sperm whale , which , after an 
unusually long raging gale , had been found dead and stranded , with his 
head against a cocoa - nut tree , whose plumage - like , tufted UNK 
seemed his verdant jet . when the vast body had at last been stripped of 
its fathom - deep UNK , and the bones become dust dry in the sun , 
then the skeleton was carefully transported up the pupella glen , where a 
grand temple of lordly palms now UNK it . 
the ribs were hung with trophies ; the vertebrae were carved with 
arsacidean annals , in strange hieroglyphics ; in the skull , the priests 
kept up an UNK aromatic flame , so that the mystic head 
again sent forth its vapoury spout ; while , suspended from a UNK , the 
terrific lower jaw vibrated over all the UNK , like the hair - hung 
sword that so affrighted UNK . 
it was a wondrous sight . the wood was green as mosses of the icy 
glen ; the trees stood high and haughty , feeling their living sap ; the 
UNK earth beneath was as a weaver ' s loom , with a gorgeous carpet 
on it , whereof the ground - vine UNK formed the warp and woof , and 
the living flowers the figures . all the trees , with all their laden 
branches ; all the UNK , and UNK , and UNK ; the message - carrying 
air ; all these unceasingly were active . through the UNK of the 
leaves , the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the UNK 
verdure . oh , busy weaver ! unseen weaver ! - pause ! - one word ! - UNK 
flows the fabric ? what palace may it deck ? wherefore all these ceaseless 
UNK ? speak , weaver ! - stay thy hand ! - but one single word with 
thee ! nay - the shuttle flies - the figures float from forth the loom ; the 
UNK - rushing carpet for ever slides away . the weaver - god , he UNK ; 
and by that weaving is he deafened , that he hears no mortal voice ; and 
by that humming , we , too , who look on the loom are deafened ; and only 
when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak through 
it . for even so it is in all material UNK . the spoken words that 
are inaudible among the flying UNK ; those same words are plainly 
heard without the walls , bursting from the opened UNK . thereby 
have UNK been UNK . ah , mortal ! then , be heedful ; for so , in 
all this din of the great world ' s loom , thy subtlest UNK may be 
overheard afar . 
now , amid the green , life - restless loom of that arsacidean wood , the 
great , white , worshipped skeleton lay lounging - a gigantic idler ! yet , 
as the ever - woven verdant warp and woof UNK and UNK around 
him , the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver ; himself all woven 
over with the UNK ; every month assuming UNK , UNK verdure ; but 
himself a skeleton . life folded death ; death UNK life ; the grim 
god UNK with UNK life , and begat him UNK - headed glories . 
now , when with royal tranquo i visited this wondrous whale , and saw the 
skull an altar , and the artificial smoke ascending from where the real 
jet had issued , i marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as 
an object of vertu . he laughed . but more i marvelled that the priests 
should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine . to and fro i paced 
before this skeleton - brushed the UNK aside - broke through the 
ribs - and with a ball of arsacidean twine , UNK , UNK long amid 
its many winding , shaded colonnades and UNK . but soon my line was 
out ; and following it back , i emerged from the opening where i entered . 
i saw no living thing within ; naught was there but bones . 
cutting me a green UNK - rod , i once more dived within the skeleton . 
from their arrow - slit in the skull , the priests perceived me taking the 
altitude of the final rib , " how now ! " they shouted ; " UNK ' st thou measure 
this our god ! that ' s for us . " " aye , priests - well , how long do ye make 
him , then ? " but UNK a fierce UNK rose among them , concerning 
feet and inches ; they cracked each other ' s UNK with their 
yard - sticks - the great skull echoed - and seizing that lucky chance , i 
quickly concluded my own UNK . 
these UNK i now propose to set before you . but first , be 
it recorded , that , in this matter , i am not free to utter any fancied 
measurement i please . because there are skeleton authorities you can 
refer to , to test my accuracy . there is a leviathanic museum , they tell 
me , in hull , england , one of the whaling ports of that country , where 
they have some fine specimens of fin - backs and other whales . likewise , i 
have heard that in the museum of UNK , in new hampshire , they have 
what the proprietors call " the only perfect specimen of a greenland or 
river whale in the united states . " moreover , at a place in UNK , 
england , burton constable by name , a certain sir clifford constable has 
in his possession the skeleton of a sperm whale , but of moderate size , 
by no means of the full - grown magnitude of my friend king tranquo ' s . 
in both cases , the stranded whales to which these two skeletons 
belonged , were originally claimed by their proprietors upon similar 
grounds . king tranquo seizing his because he wanted it ; and sir 
clifford , because he was lord of the UNK of those parts . sir 
clifford ' s whale has been UNK throughout ; so that , like a 
great chest of drawers , you can open and shut him , in all his bony 
UNK - spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan - and swing all day 
upon his lower jaw . locks are to be put upon some of his trap - doors and 
UNK ; and a UNK will show round future visitors with a bunch of 
keys at his side . sir clifford thinks of UNK UNK for a peep at 
the whispering gallery in the spinal column ; UNK to hear the echo 
in the hollow of his cerebellum ; and UNK for the UNK view 
from his forehead . 
the skeleton dimensions i shall now proceed to set down are copied 
UNK from my right arm , where i had them tattooed ; as in my wild 
UNK at that period , there was no other secure way of preserving 
such valuable UNK . but as i was crowded for space , and UNK 
the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem i was 
then composing - at least , what UNK parts might remain - i did not 
trouble myself with the odd inches ; nor , indeed , should inches at all 
enter into a congenial UNK of the whale . 
chapter UNK . measurement of the whale ' s skeleton . 
in the first place , i wish to lay before you a particular , plain 
statement , touching the living bulk of this leviathan , whose skeleton we 
are UNK to UNK . such a statement may prove useful here . 
according to a careful calculation i have made , and which i partly base 
upon captain scoresby ' s estimate , of seventy tons for the largest 
sized greenland whale of sixty feet in length ; according to my careful 
calculation , i say , a sperm whale of the largest magnitude , between 
eighty - five and ninety feet in length , and something less than forty 
feet in its fullest circumference , such a whale will weigh at least 
ninety tons ; so that , reckoning UNK men to a ton , he would 
considerably UNK the combined UNK of a whole village of one 
thousand one hundred inhabitants . 
think you not then that brains , like yoked cattle , should be put to this 
leviathan , to make him at all budge to any landsman ' s imagination ? 
having already in various ways put before you his skull , spout - hole , 
jaw , teeth , tail , forehead , fins , and divers other parts , i shall now 
simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of his 
unobstructed bones . but as the colossal skull embraces so very large 
a proportion of the entire extent of the skeleton ; as it is by far the 
most complicated part ; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it in 
this chapter , you must not fail to carry it in your mind , or under your 
arm , as we proceed , otherwise you will not gain a complete notion of the 
general structure we are about to view . 
in length , the sperm whale ' s skeleton at tranque measured seventy - two 
feet ; so that when fully invested and extended in life , he must have 
been ninety feet long ; for in the whale , the skeleton loses about one 
fifth in length compared with the living body . of this seventy - two feet , 
his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet , leaving some fifty feet of 
plain back - bone . attached to this back - bone , for something less than a 
third of its length , was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once 
UNK his UNK . 
to me this vast ivory - ribbed chest , with the long , unrelieved spine , 
extending far away from it in a straight line , not a little resembled 
the hull of a great ship new - laid upon the stocks , when only some twenty 
of her naked bow - ribs are inserted , and the keel is otherwise , for the 
time , but a long , UNK timber . 
the ribs were ten on a side . the first , to begin from the neck , 
was nearly six feet long ; the second , third , and fourth were each 
UNK longer , till you came to the UNK of the fifth , or one 
of the middle ribs , which measured eight feet and some inches . from 
that part , the remaining ribs diminished , till the tenth and last only 
UNK five feet and some inches . in general thickness , they all bore 
a UNK UNK to their length . the middle ribs were the most 
arched . in some of the arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay 
UNK bridges over small streams . 
in considering these ribs , i could not but be struck anew with the 
circumstance , so variously repeated in this book , that the skeleton of 
the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form . the largest of 
the tranque ribs , one of the middle ones , occupied that part of the fish 
which , in life , is greatest in depth . now , the greatest depth of the 
invested body of this particular whale must have been at least sixteen 
feet ; whereas , the corresponding rib measured but little more than eight 
feet . so that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion of the 
living magnitude of that part . besides , for some way , where i now saw 
but a naked spine , all that had been once wrapped round with tons of 
added bulk in flesh , muscle , blood , and bowels . still more , for the 
ample fins , i here saw but a few disordered joints ; and in place of the 
weighty and majestic , but boneless flukes , an utter blank ! 
how vain and foolish , then , thought i , for timid untravelled man to try 
to comprehend aright this wondrous whale , by merely poring over his dead 
UNK skeleton , stretched in this peaceful wood . no . only in the 
heart of UNK perils ; only when within the UNK of his UNK 
flukes ; only on the profound UNK sea , can the fully invested whale 
be truly and livingly found out . 
but the spine . for that , the best way we can consider it is , with a 
crane , to pile its bones high up on end . no speedy enterprise . but now 
it ' s done , it looks much like UNK ' s pillar . 
there are forty and odd vertebrae in all , which in the skeleton are 
not locked together . they mostly lie like the great UNK blocks on 
a gothic spire , forming solid courses of heavy masonry . the largest , 
a middle one , is in width something less than three feet , and in depth 
more than four . the smallest , where the spine tapers away into the 
tail , is only two inches in width , and looks something like a white 
billiard - ball . i was told that there were still smaller ones , but they 
had been lost by some little cannibal UNK , the priest ' s children , 
who had stolen them to play marbles with . thus we see how that the 
spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into simple 
child ' s play . 
chapter UNK . the fossil whale . 
from his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon 
to enlarge , UNK , and generally expatiate . would you , you could not 
UNK him . by good rights he should only be treated of in imperial 
folio . not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail , 
and the yards he measures about the waist ; only think of the gigantic 
UNK of his UNK , where they lie in him like great 
cables and hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop - deck of a 
line - of - battle - ship . 
since i have undertaken to manhandle this leviathan , it behooves me 
to UNK myself UNK UNK in the enterprise ; not 
overlooking the minutest UNK UNK of his blood , and spinning him 
out to the uttermost coil of his bowels . having already described him 
in most of his present UNK and anatomical peculiarities , it 
now remains to UNK him in an UNK , fossiliferous , and 
antediluvian point of view . applied to any other creature than the 
leviathan - to an ant or a flea - such portly terms might justly be deemed 
unwarrantably UNK . but when leviathan is the text , the case is 
UNK . fain am i to stagger to this UNK under the UNK 
words of the UNK . and here be it said , that whenever it has been 
convenient to UNK one in the course of these UNK , i have 
invariably used a huge quarto edition of johnson , UNK purchased 
for that purpose ; because that famous UNK ' s uncommon personal 
bulk more fitted him to UNK a lexicon to be used by a whale author 
like me . 
one often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject , 
though it may seem but an ordinary one . how , then , with me , UNK 
of this leviathan ? unconsciously my UNK expands into UNK 
capitals . give me a UNK ' s quill ! give me UNK ' crater for an 
UNK ! friends , hold my arms ! for in the mere act of UNK my 
thoughts of this leviathan , they weary me , and make me faint with their 
UNK comprehensiveness of sweep , as if to include the whole 
circle of the sciences , and all the generations of whales , and men , and 
UNK , past , present , and to come , with all the revolving UNK 
of empire on earth , and throughout the whole universe , not UNK its 
UNK . such , and so magnifying , is the virtue of a large and liberal 
theme ! we expand to its bulk . to produce a mighty book , you must choose 
a mighty theme . no great and UNK volume can ever be written on the 
flea , though many there be who have tried it . 
ere entering upon the subject of fossil whales , i present my UNK 
as a UNK , by stating that in my miscellaneous time i have been 
a stone - mason , and also a great UNK of UNK , canals and UNK , 
wine - vaults , UNK , and UNK of all sorts . likewise , by way of 
preliminary , i desire to UNK the reader , that while in the earlier 
geological UNK there are found the fossils of monsters now almost 
completely extinct ; the subsequent relics discovered in what are called 
the tertiary formations seem the connecting , or at any rate UNK 
links , between the UNK creatures , and those whose remote 
posterity are said to have entered the ark ; all the fossil whales 
hitherto discovered belong to the tertiary period , which is the last 
preceding the UNK formations . and though none of them 
precisely answer to any known species of the present time , they are yet 
sufficiently akin to them in general respects , to UNK their taking 
rank as cetacean fossils . 
detached broken fossils of pre - adamite whales , fragments of their bones 
and skeletons , have within thirty years past , at various intervals , been 
found at the base of the alps , in UNK , in france , in england , in 
UNK , and in the states of UNK , mississippi , and alabama . 
among the more curious of such remains is part of a skull , which in the 
year UNK was disinterred in the UNK UNK in UNK , a short street 
opening almost directly upon the palace of the UNK ; and bones 
disinterred in excavating the great docks of UNK , in napoleon ' s 
time . cuvier pronounced these fragments to have belonged to some utterly 
unknown leviathanic species . 
but by far the most wonderful of all cetacean relics was the almost 
complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster , found in the year UNK , on 
the plantation of judge UNK , in alabama . the awe - stricken credulous 
slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen 
angels . the alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile , and bestowed 
upon it the name of UNK . but some specimen bones of it being 
taken across the sea to owen , the english UNK , it turned out 
that this alleged reptile was a whale , though of a departed species . a 
significant illustration of the fact , again and again repeated in this 
book , that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the 
shape of his fully invested body . so owen UNK the monster 
UNK ; and in his paper read before the london geological society , 
pronounced it , in substance , one of the most extraordinary creatures 
which the UNK of the globe have UNK out of existence . 
when i stand among these mighty leviathan skeletons , skulls , tusks , 
jaws , ribs , and vertebrae , all UNK by UNK UNK to 
the existing breeds of sea - monsters ; but at the same time bearing on 
the other hand similar UNK to the annihilated UNK 
leviathans , their incalculable UNK ; i am , by a flood , borne back 
to that wondrous period , ere time itself can be said to have begun ; 
for time began with man . here saturn ' s grey chaos rolls over me , and i 
obtain dim , shuddering glimpses into those polar eternities ; when wedged 
UNK of ice pressed hard upon what are now the tropics ; and in 
all the 25 , 000 miles of this world ' s circumference , not an UNK 
hand ' s breadth of land was visible . then the whole world was the 
whale ' s ; and , king of creation , he left his wake along the present lines 
of the andes and the UNK . who can show a UNK like leviathan ? 
ahab ' s harpoon had shed UNK blood than the pharaoh ' s . UNK seems 
a school - boy . i look round to shake hands with UNK . i am horror - struck 
at this UNK , UNK existence of the unspeakable terrors of 
the whale , which , having been before all time , must needs exist after 
all humane ages are over . 
but not alone has this leviathan left his pre - adamite traces in the 
UNK plates of nature , and in UNK and UNK UNK his 
ancient bust ; but upon egyptian tablets , whose antiquity seems to claim 
for them an almost fossiliferous character , we find the unmistakable 
UNK of his fin . in an apartment of the great temple of UNK , 
some fifty years ago , there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a 
sculptured and painted planisphere , abounding in centaurs , UNK , and 
dolphins , similar to the UNK figures on the celestial globe of the 
UNK . gliding among them , old leviathan swam as of UNK ; was there 
swimming in that planisphere , centuries before solomon was UNK . 
nor must there be omitted another strange UNK of the antiquity 
of the whale , in his own UNK post - UNK reality , as set down by 
the venerable john leo , the old barbary traveller . 
" not far from the sea - side , they have a temple , the rafters and beams 
of which are made of whale - bones ; for whales of a monstrous size are 
oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore . the common people imagine , that 
by a secret power bestowed by god upon the temple , no whale can pass it 
without immediate death . but the truth of the matter is , that on either 
side of the temple , there are rocks that shoot two miles into the sea , 
and wound the whales when they light upon ' em . they keep a whale ' s rib 
of an incredible length for a miracle , which lying upon the ground with 
its UNK part uppermost , makes an arch , the head of which cannot be 
reached by a man upon a camel ' s back . this rib ( says john leo ) is said 
to have UNK there a hundred years before i saw it . their UNK 
UNK , that a prophet who prophesy ' d of UNK , came from this temple , 
and some do not stand to assert , that the prophet UNK was cast forth 
by the whale at the base of the temple . " 
in this UNK temple of the whale i leave you , reader , and if you be a 
nantucketer , and a whaleman , you will silently worship there . 
chapter UNK . does the whale ' s magnitude diminish ? - will he perish ? 
inasmuch , then , as this leviathan comes floundering down upon us from 
the head - waters of the eternities , it may be UNK UNK , whether , 
in the long course of his generations , he has not degenerated from the 
original bulk of his UNK . 
but upon UNK we find , that not only are the whales of the 
present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are 
found in the tertiary system ( embracing a distinct geological period 
prior to man ) , but of the whales found in that tertiary system , those 
belonging to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlier 
ones . 
of all the pre - adamite whales yet UNK , by far the largest is the 
alabama one mentioned in the last chapter , and that was less than 
seventy feet in length in the skeleton . whereas , we have already seen , 
that the UNK - measure gives seventy - two feet for the skeleton of a large 
sized modern whale . and i have heard , on whalemen ' s authority , that 
sperm whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of 
capture . 
but may it not be , that while the whales of the present hour are an 
advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods ; may 
it not be , that since adam ' s time they have degenerated ? 
UNK , we must conclude so , if we are to credit the accounts of such 
gentlemen as pliny , and the ancient naturalists generally . for pliny 
tells us of whales that embraced acres of living bulk , and UNK 
of others which measured eight hundred feet in length - rope walks and 
thames UNK of whales ! and even in the days of banks and UNK , 
UNK ' s naturalists , we find a danish member of the UNK of sciences 
setting down certain iceland whales ( UNK - UNK , or wrinkled bellies ) 
at one hundred and twenty yards ; that is , three hundred and sixty feet . 
and lacepede , the french naturalist , in his UNK history of whales , 
in the very beginning of his work ( page 3 ) , sets down the right whale at 
one hundred UNK , three hundred and twenty - eight feet . and this work 
was published so late as a . d . UNK . 
but will any whaleman believe these stories ? no . the whale of to - day is 
as big as his UNK in pliny ' s time . and if ever i go where pliny 
is , i , a whaleman ( more than he was ) , will make bold to tell him so . 
because i cannot understand how it is , that while the egyptian mummies 
that were buried thousands of years before even pliny was born , do not 
measure so much in their coffins as a modern kentuckian in his socks ; 
and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest egyptian 
and nineveh tablets , by the relative proportions in which they are 
drawn , just as plainly prove that the high - bred , UNK - fed , prize cattle 
of UNK , not only equal , but far exceed in magnitude the UNK 
of pharaoh ' s fat UNK ; in the face of all this , i will not admit that of 
all animals the whale alone should have degenerated . 
but still another inquiry remains ; one often agitated by the more 
recondite nantucketers . whether owing to the almost UNK look - outs 
at the mast - heads of the UNK , now UNK even through 
UNK ' s straits , and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers 
of the world ; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all 
continental coasts ; the moot point is , whether leviathan can long endure 
so wide a chase , and so remorseless a havoc ; whether he must not at last 
be UNK from the waters , and the last whale , like the last man , 
smoke his last pipe , and then himself UNK in the final puff . 
comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo , 
which , not forty years ago , UNK by tens of thousands the prairies 
of illinois and missouri , and shook their iron UNK and UNK with 
their thunder - clotted UNK upon the UNK of populous river - capitals , 
where now the polite UNK UNK you land at a UNK an inch ; in such 
a comparison an irresistible argument would seem furnished , to show that 
the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction . 
but you must look at this matter in every light . though so short a 
period ago - not a good lifetime - the census of the buffalo in illinois 
exceeded the census of men now in london , and though at the present day 
not one horn or UNK of them remains in all that region ; and though the 
cause of this wondrous UNK was the spear of man ; yet the far 
different nature of the whale - hunt peremptorily UNK so UNK an 
end to the leviathan . forty men in one ship hunting the sperm whales for 
forty - eight months think they have done extremely well , and thank god , 
if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish . whereas , in the days 
of the old UNK and indian hunters and trappers of the west , when 
the far west ( in whose sunset suns still rise ) was a wilderness and 
a virgin , the same number of UNK men , for the same number of 
months , mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships , would have slain 
not forty , but forty thousand and more UNK ; a fact that , if need 
were , could be UNK stated . 
nor , considered aright , does it seem any argument in favour of the 
UNK extinction of the sperm whale , for example , that in former years 
( the latter part of the last century , say ) these leviathans , in 
small pods , were encountered much oftener than at present , and , in 
consequence , the voyages were not so prolonged , and were also much more 
UNK . because , as has been elsewhere noticed , those whales , 
UNK by some views to safety , now swim the seas in immense 
UNK , so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries , UNK , and 
pods , and schools of other days are now UNK into vast but widely 
separated , unfrequent armies . that is all . and equally UNK seems 
the conceit , that because the so - called whale - bone whales no longer 
UNK many grounds in former years abounding with them , hence that 
species also is UNK . for they are only being driven from 
promontory to cape ; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with 
their jets , then , be sure , some other and UNK strand has been very 
recently startled by the UNK spectacle . 
furthermore : concerning these last mentioned leviathans , they have two 
firm UNK , which , in all human probability , will for ever remain 
impregnable . and as upon the UNK of their valleys , the frosty UNK 
have retreated to their mountains ; so , hunted from the UNK and 
glades of the middle seas , the whale - bone whales can at last resort to 
their polar UNK , and diving under the ultimate glassy UNK and 
walls there , come up among icy fields and UNK ; and in a charmed circle 
of everlasting december , bid defiance to all pursuit from man . 
but as perhaps fifty of these whale - bone whales are harpooned for one 
cachalot , some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this 
positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions . 
but though for some time past a number of these whales , not less than 
13 , 000 , have been UNK slain on the nor ' - west coast by the americans 
alone ; yet there are considerations which render even this circumstance 
of little or no account as an opposing argument in this matter . 
natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the UNK 
of the more enormous creatures of the globe , yet what shall we say to 
UNK , the historian of UNK , when he tells us that at one hunting the 
king of siam took 4 , 000 elephants ; that in those regions elephants are 
numerous as UNK of cattle in the temperate climes . and there seems no 
reason to doubt that if these elephants , which have now been hunted for 
thousands of years , by UNK , by porus , by UNK , and by all the 
successive UNK of the east - if they still survive there in great 
numbers , much more may the great whale UNK all hunting , since he 
has a pasture to expatiate in , which is precisely twice as large as all 
asia , both UNK , europe and africa , new holland , and all the isles 
of the sea combined . 
moreover : we are to consider , that from the presumed great UNK 
of whales , their probably attaining the age of a century and more , 
therefore at any one period of time , several distinct adult generations 
must be contemporary . and what that is , we may soon gain some idea 
of , by UNK all the grave - yards , cemeteries , and family vaults of 
creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men , women , and children 
who were alive seventy - five years ago ; and adding this countless host to 
the present human UNK of the globe . 
wherefore , for all these things , we account the whale immortal in his 
species , however UNK in his individuality . he swam the seas 
before the continents broke water ; he once swam over the site of the 
UNK , and windsor castle , and the UNK . in noah ' s flood he 
UNK noah ' s ark ; and if ever the world is to be again flooded , like 
the UNK , to kill off its UNK , then the eternal whale will still 
survive , and rearing upon the topmost UNK of the equatorial flood , 
spout his UNK defiance to the skies . 
chapter UNK . ahab ' s leg . 
the UNK manner in which captain ahab had quitted the samuel 
enderby of london , had not been unattended with some small violence to 
his own person . he had lighted with such energy upon a UNK of his 
boat that his ivory leg had received a half - UNK shock . and 
when after gaining his own deck , and his own pivot - hole there , he so 
vehemently wheeled round with an UNK command to the steersman ( it 
was , as ever , something about his not steering UNK enough ) ; then , 
the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and UNK , 
that though it still remained entire , and to all appearances UNK , yet 
ahab did not deem it entirely UNK . 
and , indeed , it seemed small matter for wonder , that for all his 
pervading , mad UNK , ahab did at times give careful heed to the 
condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood . for it had not 
been very long prior to the pequod ' s sailing from nantucket , that he 
had been found one night lying UNK upon the ground , and UNK ; 
by some unknown , and seemingly inexplicable , unimaginable casualty , his 
ivory limb having been so violently UNK , that it had stake - wise 
smitten , and all but pierced his UNK ; nor was it without extreme 
difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely UNK . 
nor , at the time , had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind , that all 
the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a 
former woe ; and he too plainly seemed to see , that as the most poisonous 
reptile of the UNK UNK his kind as inevitably as the UNK 
UNK of the UNK ; so , equally with every felicity , all miserable 
events do naturally beget their like . yea , more than equally , thought 
ahab ; since both the ancestry and posterity of grief go further than the 
ancestry and posterity of joy . for , not to hint of this : that it is 
an inference from certain UNK teachings , that while some natural 
UNK here shall have no children born to them for the other world , 
but , on the contrary , shall be followed by the joy - UNK of 
all hell ' s despair ; whereas , some guilty mortal miseries shall still 
UNK beget to themselves an eternally UNK progeny of UNK 
beyond the grave ; not at all to hint of this , there still seems an 
UNK in the deeper UNK of the thing . for , thought ahab , while 
even the highest earthly UNK ever have a certain UNK 
UNK lurking in them , but , at bottom , all UNK , a mystic 
significance , and , in some men , an UNK grandeur ; so do their 
diligent UNK - out not belie the obvious UNK . to trail the 
UNK of these high mortal miseries , carries us at last among the 
UNK UNK of the gods ; so that , in the face of all the 
glad , hay - making suns , and soft UNK , round harvest - moons , we must 
needs give in to this : that the gods themselves are not for ever glad . 
the UNK , sad birth - mark in the brow of man , is but the stamp of 
sorrow in the UNK . 
unwittingly here a secret has been divulged , which perhaps might more 
properly , in set way , have been disclosed before . with many other 
particulars concerning ahab , always had it remained a mystery to some , 
why it was , that for a certain period , both before and after the sailing 
of the pequod , he had hidden himself away with such grand - UNK - like 
UNK ; and , for that one interval , sought speechless refuge , as 
it were , among the marble UNK of the dead . captain peleg ' s bruited 
reason for this thing appeared by no means adequate ; though , indeed , 
as touching all ahab ' s deeper part , every revelation UNK more of 
significant darkness than of UNK light . but , in the end , it all 
came out ; this one matter did , at least . that direful mishap was at 
the bottom of his temporary UNK . and not only this , but to that 
ever - contracting , dropping circle ashore , who , for any reason , possessed 
the privilege of a less UNK approach to him ; to that timid circle the 
above hinted casualty - remaining , as it did , moodily UNK for by 
ahab - invested itself with terrors , not entirely UNK from the land 
of spirits and of UNK . so that , through their UNK for him , they had 
all UNK , so far as in them lay , to UNK up the knowledge of 
this thing from others ; and hence it was , that not till a considerable 
interval had elapsed , did it UNK upon the pequod ' s decks . 
but be all this as it may ; let the unseen , ambiguous UNK in the air , 
or the vindictive UNK and UNK of fire , have to do or not 
with earthly ahab , yet , in this present matter of his leg , he took plain 
practical UNK ; - he called the carpenter . 
and when that UNK appeared before him , he bade him without delay 
set about making a new leg , and directed the mates to see him supplied 
with all the UNK and joists of jaw - ivory ( sperm whale ) which had thus 
far been accumulated on the voyage , in order that a careful selection 
of the stoutest , UNK - UNK stuff might be secured . this done , the 
carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that night ; and to 
UNK all the UNK for it , independent of those pertaining to 
the distrusted one in use . moreover , the ship ' s forge was ordered to be 
hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold ; and , to accelerate 
the affair , the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the 
forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed . 
chapter UNK . the carpenter . 
seat thyself UNK among the moons of saturn , and take high 
UNK man alone ; and he seems a wonder , a grandeur , and a woe . but 
from the same point , take mankind in mass , and for the most part , they 
seem a mob of unnecessary UNK , both contemporary and hereditary . 
but most humble though he was , and far from furnishing an example of 
the high , humane UNK ; the pequod ' s carpenter was no duplicate ; 
hence , he now comes in person on this stage . 
like all sea - going ship carpenters , and more especially those belonging 
to whaling vessels , he was , to a certain off - handed , practical extent , 
alike experienced in numerous trades and UNK collateral to his own ; 
the carpenter ' s pursuit being the ancient and UNK trunk of all 
those numerous UNK which more or less have to do with wood as an 
auxiliary material . but , besides the application to him of the generic 
remark above , this carpenter of the pequod was singularly UNK in 
those thousand nameless mechanical UNK continually recurring 
in a large ship , upon a three or four years ' voyage , in uncivilized 
and far - distant seas . for not to speak of his readiness in ordinary 
duties : - UNK stove boats , sprung spars , UNK the shape of 
clumsy - UNK oars , inserting bull ' s eyes in the deck , or new tree - nails 
in the side planks , and other miscellaneous matters more directly 
pertaining to his special business ; he was moreover UNK 
UNK in all manner of UNK UNK , both useful and 
capricious . 
the one grand stage where he UNK all his various parts so manifold , 
was his vice - bench ; a long rude ponderous table furnished with several 
vices , of different sizes , and both of iron and of wood . at all times 
except when whales were alongside , this bench was securely lashed 
UNK against the rear of the try - works . 
a UNK pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole : 
the carpenter claps it into one of his ever - ready vices , and straightway 
UNK it smaller . a lost land - bird of strange plumage UNK on board , 
and is made a captive : out of clean shaved rods of right - whale bone , and 
cross - beams of sperm whale ivory , the carpenter makes a pagoda - looking 
cage for it . an oarsman UNK his wrist : the carpenter UNK a 
soothing UNK . stubb UNK for UNK stars to be painted upon 
the blade of his every oar ; screwing each oar in his big vice of wood , 
the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation . a sailor takes 
a fancy to wear shark - bone ear - rings : the carpenter UNK his ears . 
another has the UNK : the carpenter out UNK , and clapping 
one hand upon his bench UNK him be seated there ; but the poor fellow 
UNK UNK under the UNK operation ; whirling round the 
handle of his wooden vice , the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in 
that , if he would have him draw the tooth . 
thus , this carpenter was prepared at all points , and alike indifferent 
and without respect in all . teeth he accounted bits of ivory ; heads he 
deemed but top - blocks ; men themselves he lightly held for UNK . but 
while now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and with such 
liveliness of UNK in him , too ; all this would seem to argue some 
uncommon UNK of intelligence . but not precisely so . for nothing was 
this man more remarkable , than for a certain impersonal stolidity as 
it were ; impersonal , i say ; for it so shaded off into the surrounding 
infinite of things , that it seemed one with the general stolidity 
discernible in the whole visible world ; which while UNK active 
in uncounted modes , still eternally holds its peace , and UNK you , 
though you dig foundations for UNK . yet was this half - horrible 
stolidity in him , UNK , too , as it appeared , an all - UNK 
UNK ; - yet was it UNK dashed at times , with an old , 
UNK - like , antediluvian , UNK humorousness , not UNK now 
and then with a certain grizzled UNK ; such as might have served 
to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle 
of noah ' s ark . was it that this old carpenter had been a life - long 
UNK , whose much rolling , to and fro , not only had gathered no moss ; 
but what is more , had rubbed off whatever small outward UNK 
might have originally UNK to him ? he was a stript UNK ; an 
UNK integral ; uncompromised as a new - born UNK ; living without 
UNK reference to this world or the next . you might almost 
say , that this strange UNK in him involved a sort of 
UNK ; for in his numerous trades , he did not seem to work so 
much by reason or by instinct , or simply because he had been UNK to 
it , or by any UNK of all these , even or UNK ; but merely by 
a kind of deaf and dumb , UNK UNK process . he was a pure 
UNK ; his brain , if he had ever had one , must have early 
UNK along into the muscles of his fingers . he was like one of 
those unreasoning but still highly useful , UNK in UNK , UNK 
contrivances , assuming the exterior - though a little swelled - of a 
common pocket knife ; but containing , not only blades of various sizes , 
but also screw - UNK , cork - screws , UNK , UNK , UNK , UNK , 
nail - UNK , UNK . so , if his UNK wanted to use the 
carpenter for a screw - driver , all they had to do was to open that part 
of him , and the screw was fast : or if for UNK , take him up by the 
legs , and there they were . 
yet , as previously hinted , this UNK , open - and - shut carpenter , 
was , after all , no mere UNK of an UNK . if he did not have a 
common soul in him , he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously 
did its duty . what that was , whether essence of UNK , or a few 
drops of UNK , there is no telling . but there it was ; and there it 
had UNK for now some sixty years or more . and this it was , this same 
unaccountable , cunning life - principle in him ; this it was , that kept 
him a great part of the time UNK ; but only like an unreasoning 
wheel , which also UNK UNK ; or rather , his body was a 
sentry - box and this UNK on guard there , and talking all the 
time to keep himself awake . 
chapter UNK . ahab and the carpenter . 
the deck - first night watch . 
( carpenter standing before his vice - bench , and by the light of two 
lanterns UNK UNK the ivory joist for the leg , which joist is 
firmly fixed in the vice . slabs of ivory , leather straps , UNK , screws , 
and various tools of all sorts lying about the bench . forward , the red 
flame of the forge is seen , where the blacksmith is at work . ) 
drat the file , and drat the bone ! that is hard which should be soft , 
and that is soft which should be hard . so we go , who file old jaws and 
shinbones . let ' s try another . aye , now , this works better ( sneezes ) . 
halloa , this bone dust is ( sneezes ) - why it ' s ( sneezes ) - yes it ' s 
( sneezes ) - bless my soul , it won ' t let me speak ! this is what an old 
fellow gets now for working in dead lumber . saw a live tree , and 
you don ' t get this dust ; UNK a live bone , and you don ' t get it 
( sneezes ) . come , come , you old UNK , there , bear a hand , and let ' s have 
that ferule and buckle - screw ; i ' ll be ready for them presently . lucky 
now ( sneezes ) there ' s no knee - joint to make ; that might puzzle a little ; 
but a mere UNK - why it ' s easy as making hop - poles ; only i should 
like to put a good UNK on . time , time ; if i but only had the time , i 
could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever ( sneezes ) scraped to a lady 
in a parlor . those buckskin legs and calves of legs i ' ve seen in shop 
windows wouldn ' t compare at all . they UNK water , they do ; and of 
course get rheumatic , and have to be UNK ( sneezes ) with UNK and 
UNK , just like live legs . there ; before i saw it off , now , i must 
call his old UNK , and see whether the length will be all right ; 
too short , if anything , i guess . ha ! that ' s the heel ; we are in luck ; 
here he comes , or it ' s somebody else , that ' s certain . 
ahab ( advancing ) 
( during the ensuing scene , the carpenter continues sneezing at times ) 
well , UNK ! 
just in time , sir . if the captain UNK , i will now mark the length . 
let me measure , sir . 
measured for a leg ! good . well , it ' s not the first time . about it ! 
there ; keep thy finger on it . this is a cogent vice thou hast here , 
carpenter ; let me feel its grip once . so , so ; it does UNK some . 
oh , sir , it will break bones - beware , beware ! 
no fear ; i like a good grip ; i like to feel something in this 
slippery world that can hold , man . what ' s prometheus about there ? - the 
blacksmith , i mean - what ' s he about ? 
he must be forging the buckle - screw , sir , now . 
right . it ' s a UNK ; he supplies the muscle part . he makes a 
fierce red flame there ! 
aye , sir ; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work . 
um - m . so he must . i do deem it now a most meaning thing , that that 
old greek , prometheus , who made men , they say , should have been a 
blacksmith , and animated them with fire ; for what ' s made in fire must 
properly belong to fire ; and so hell ' s probable . how the soot flies ! 
this must be the remainder the greek made the UNK of . carpenter , 
when he ' s through with that buckle , tell him to forge a pair of steel 
shoulder - blades ; there ' s a UNK aboard with a UNK pack . 
sir ? 
hold ; while prometheus is about it , i ' ll order a complete man after a 
desirable UNK . UNK , fifty feet high in his socks ; then , chest 
UNK after the thames UNK ; then , legs with UNK to ' em , to stay 
in one place ; then , arms three feet through the wrist ; no heart at all , 
brass forehead , and about a quarter of an UNK of fine brains ; and let 
me see - shall i order eyes to see UNK ? no , but put a sky - light on 
top of his head to illuminate inwards . there , take the order , and away . 
now , what ' s he speaking about , and who ' s he speaking to , i should like 
to know ? shall i keep standing here ? ( aside ) . 
' tis but indifferent UNK to make a blind dome ; here ' s one . no , 
no , no ; i must have a lantern . 
ho , ho ! that ' s it , hey ? here are two , sir ; one will serve my turn . 
what art thou thrusting that UNK - UNK into my face for , man ? 
UNK light is worse than presented UNK . 
i thought , sir , that you spoke to carpenter . 
carpenter ? why that ' s - but no ; - a very tidy , and , i may say , 
an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here , 
carpenter ; - or would ' st thou rather work in clay ? 
sir ? - clay ? clay , sir ? that ' s UNK ; we leave clay to UNK , sir . 
the fellow ' s impious ! what art thou sneezing about ? 
bone is rather dusty , sir . 
take the hint , then ; and when thou art dead , never bury thyself under 
living people ' s noses . 
sir ? - oh ! ah ! - i guess so ; - yes - dear ! 
look ye , carpenter , i dare say thou callest thyself a right good 
workmanlike workman , eh ? well , then , will it speak thoroughly well 
for thy work , if , when i come to mount this leg thou makest , i shall 
nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it ; that 
is , carpenter , my old lost leg ; the flesh and blood one , i mean . canst 
thou not drive that old adam away ? 
truly , sir , i begin to understand somewhat now . yes , i have heard 
something curious on that score , sir ; how that a dismasted man never 
entirely loses the feeling of his old spar , but it will be still 
pricking him at times . may i UNK ask if it be really so , sir ? 
it is , man . look , put thy live leg here in the place where mine once 
was ; so , now , here is only one distinct leg to the eye , yet two to the 
soul . where thou UNK UNK life ; there , exactly there , there to a 
hair , do i . is ' t a riddle ? 
i should UNK call it a UNK , sir . 
hist , then . how dost thou know that some entire , living , thinking thing 
may not be invisibly and UNK standing precisely where 
thou now UNK ; aye , and standing there in thy spite ? in thy most 
solitary hours , then , dost thou not fear UNK ? hold , don ' t 
speak ! and if i still feel the smart of my crushed leg , though it be now 
so long UNK ; then , why UNK not thou , carpenter , feel the fiery 
pains of hell for ever , and without a body ? UNK ! 
good lord ! truly , sir , if it comes to that , i must calculate over again ; 
i think i didn ' t carry a small figure , sir . 
look ye , pudding - heads should never grant premises . - how long before the 
leg is done ? 
perhaps an hour , sir . 
UNK away at it then , and bring it to me ( turns to go ) . oh , life ! here 
i am , proud as greek god , and yet standing UNK to this UNK for 
a bone to stand on ! cursed be that mortal UNK - UNK which will 
not do away with UNK . i would be free as air ; and i ' m down in the 
whole world ' s books . i am so rich , i could have given bid for bid with 
the UNK UNK at the UNK of the roman empire ( which was 
the world ' s ) ; and yet i UNK for the flesh in the tongue i brag with . by 
heavens ! i ' ll get a UNK , and into it , and UNK myself down to 
one small , UNK vertebra . so . 
carpenter ( resuming his work ) . 
well , well , well ! stubb knows him best of all , and stubb always says 
he ' s queer ; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer ; he ' s 
queer , says stubb ; he ' s queer - queer , queer ; and keeps UNK it into 
mr . starbuck all the time - queer - sir - queer , queer , very queer . and 
here ' s his leg ! yes , now that i think of it , here ' s his bedfellow ! has 
a stick of whale ' s jaw - bone for a wife ! and this is his leg ; he ' ll stand 
on this . what was that now about one leg standing in three places , and 
all three places standing in one hell - how was that ? oh ! i don ' t wonder 
he looked so scornful at me ! i ' m a sort of strange - UNK sometimes , 
they say ; but that ' s only UNK - like . then , a short , little old body 
like me , should never UNK to wade out into deep waters with tall , 
UNK - built captains ; the water UNK you under the chin pretty quick , 
and there ' s a great cry for life - boats . and here ' s the UNK ' s leg ! 
long and UNK , sure enough ! now , for most folks one pair of legs UNK 
a lifetime , and that must be because they use them mercifully , as a 
tender - hearted old lady uses her UNK - UNK old coach - horses . but ahab ; 
oh he ' s a hard driver . look , driven one leg to death , and UNK the 
other for life , and now wears out bone legs by the cord . halloa , there , 
you UNK ! bear a hand there with those screws , and let ' s UNK it 
before the resurrection fellow comes a - calling with his horn for 
all legs , true or false , as brewery - men go round UNK old beer 
barrels , to fill ' em up again . what a leg this is ! it looks like a real 
live leg , filed down to nothing but the UNK ; he ' ll be standing on this 
to - morrow ; he ' ll be taking altitudes on it . halloa ! i almost forgot the 
little UNK UNK , UNK ivory , where he figures up the latitude . so , 
so ; UNK , file , and sand - paper , now ! 
chapter UNK . ahab and starbuck in the cabin . 
according to usage they were pumping the ship next morning ; and lo ! no 
inconsiderable oil came up with the water ; the casks below must have 
sprung a bad leak . much concern was shown ; and starbuck went down into 
the cabin to report this UNK affair . * 
* in sperm - whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board , it 
is a regular UNK duty to conduct a hose into the hold , and UNK 
the casks with sea - water ; which afterwards , at varying intervals , is 
removed by the ship ' s pumps . hereby the casks are sought to be kept 
UNK tight ; while by the changed character of the withdrawn water , the 
mariners readily detect any serious UNK in the precious cargo . 
now , from the south and west the pequod was drawing nigh to UNK and 
the bashee isles , between which lies one of the tropical outlets from 
the china waters into the pacific . and so starbuck found ahab with 
a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him ; 
and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the 
japanese islands - UNK , UNK , and UNK . with his snow - white new 
ivory leg UNK against the screwed leg of his table , and with a long 
UNK - hook of a jack - knife in his hand , the wondrous old man , with his 
back to the gangway door , was UNK his brow , and tracing his old 
courses again . 
" who ' s there ? " hearing the UNK at the door , but not turning round 
to it . " on deck ! begone ! " 
" captain ahab UNK ; it is i . the oil in the hold is UNK , sir . we 
must up burtons and break out . " 
" up burtons and break out ? now that we are UNK japan ; heave - to here 
for a week to UNK a parcel of old hoops ? " 
" either do that , sir , or UNK in one day more oil than we may make good 
in a year . what we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth UNK , 
sir . " 
" so it is , so it is ; if we get it . " 
" i was speaking of the oil in the hold , sir . " 
" and i was not speaking or thinking of that at all . begone ! let it leak ! 
i ' m all UNK myself . aye ! leaks in leaks ! not only full of leaky casks , 
but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship ; and that ' s a far worse plight 
than the pequod ' s , man . yet i don ' t stop to plug my leak ; for who can 
find it in the deep - loaded hull ; or how hope to plug it , even if 
found , in this life ' s howling gale ? starbuck ! i ' ll not have the burtons 
hoisted . " 
" what will the owners say , sir ? " 
" let the owners stand on nantucket beach and UNK the typhoons . what 
cares ahab ? owners , owners ? thou art always UNK to me , starbuck , 
about those UNK owners , as if the owners were my conscience . but 
look ye , the only real owner of anything is its commander ; and hark ye , 
my conscience is in this ship ' s keel . - on deck ! " 
" captain ahab , " said the reddening mate , moving further into the cabin , 
with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seemed 
not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward UNK 
of itself , but within also seemed more than half distrustful of itself ; 
" a better man than i might well pass over in thee what he would quickly 
enough UNK in a younger man ; aye , and in a UNK , captain ahab . " 
" devils ! dost thou then so much as dare to UNK think of me ? - on 
deck ! " 
" nay , sir , not yet ; i do UNK . and i do dare , sir - to be UNK ! 
shall we not understand each other better than hitherto , captain ahab ? " 
ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack ( forming part of most 
south - sea - men ' s cabin furniture ) , and pointing it towards starbuck , 
exclaimed : " there is one god that is lord over the earth , and one 
captain that is lord over the pequod . - on deck ! " 
for an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate , and his fiery cheeks , 
you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of 
the levelled tube . but , UNK his emotion , he half calmly rose , 
and as he quitted the cabin , paused for an instant and said : " thou hast 
UNK , not insulted me , sir ; but for that i ask thee not to beware of 
starbuck ; thou UNK but laugh ; but let ahab beware of ahab ; beware of 
thyself , old man . " 
" he UNK brave , but nevertheless UNK ; most careful UNK that ! " 
murmured ahab , as starbuck disappeared . " what ' s that he said - ahab 
beware of ahab - there ' s something there ! " then unconsciously using the 
musket for a staff , with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little 
cabin ; but presently the thick UNK of his forehead relaxed , and 
returning the gun to the rack , he went to the deck . 
" thou art but too good a fellow , starbuck , " he said lowly to the mate ; 
then raising his voice to the crew : " UNK the t ' gallant - sails , and 
close - reef the top - sails , fore and aft ; back the main - yard ; up burton , 
and break out in the main - hold . " 
it were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was , that as respecting 
starbuck , ahab thus acted . it may have been a flash of UNK in him ; 
or mere prudential policy which , under the circumstance , UNK 
forbade the slightest UNK of open UNK , however UNK , 
in the important chief officer of his ship . however it was , his orders 
were executed ; and the burtons were hoisted . 
chapter UNK . queequeg in his coffin . 
upon UNK , it was found that the casks last struck into the hold 
were perfectly sound , and that the leak must be further off . so , it 
being calm weather , they broke out deeper and deeper , disturbing the 
slumbers of the huge ground - UNK butts ; and from that black midnight 
sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above . so deep did they 
go ; and so ancient , and UNK , and weedy the aspect of the lowermost 
UNK , that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner - stone cask 
containing coins of captain noah , with UNK of the posted UNK , 
vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood . tierce after 
tierce , too , of water , and bread , and beef , and UNK of staves , and 
iron UNK of hoops , were hoisted out , till at last the piled decks 
were hard to get about ; and the hollow hull echoed under foot , as if 
you were UNK over empty UNK , and reeled and rolled in the sea 
like an air - freighted UNK . top - heavy was the ship as a UNK 
student with all aristotle in his head . well was it that the typhoons 
did not visit them then . 
now , at this time it was that my poor pagan UNK , and fast 
bosom - friend , queequeg , was seized with a fever , which brought him nigh 
to his endless end . 
be it said , that in this vocation of whaling , UNK are unknown ; 
dignity and danger go hand in hand ; till you get to be captain , the 
higher you rise the harder you toil . so with poor queequeg , who , as 
harpooneer , must not only face all the rage of the living whale , but - as 
we have elsewhere seen - mount his dead back in a rolling sea ; and 
finally descend into the gloom of the hold , and bitterly sweating 
all day in that subterraneous confinement , resolutely manhandle the 
UNK casks and see to their UNK . to be short , among whalemen , 
the harpooneers are the UNK , so called . 
poor queequeg ! when the ship was about half UNK , you should 
have stooped over the hatchway , and peered down upon him there ; where , 
stripped to his woollen drawers , the tattooed savage was crawling about 
amid that UNK and slime , like a green spotted UNK at the bottom 
of a well . and a well , or an ice - house , it somehow proved to him , poor 
pagan ; where , strange to say , for all the heat of his sweatings , he 
caught a terrible UNK which UNK into a fever ; and at last , after 
some days ' suffering , laid him in his hammock , close to the very UNK 
of the door of death . how he wasted and wasted away in those few 
long - lingering days , till there seemed but little left of him but his 
frame and tattooing . but as all else in him UNK , and his cheek - bones 
grew sharper , his eyes , nevertheless , seemed growing fuller and fuller ; 
they became of a strange UNK of lustre ; and mildly but deeply 
looked out at you there from his sickness , a wondrous testimony to that 
immortal health in him which could not die , or be weakened . and like 
circles on the water , which , as they grow UNK , expand ; so his eyes 
seemed rounding and rounding , like the rings of eternity . an awe that 
cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of this 
waning savage , and saw as strange things in his face , as any beheld who 
were UNK when UNK died . for whatever is truly wondrous and 
fearful in man , never yet was put into words or books . and the drawing 
near of death , which alike levels all , alike UNK all with a last 
revelation , which only an author from the dead could adequately tell . 
so that - let us say it again - no dying chaldee or greek had higher and 
UNK thoughts than those , whose mysterious shades you saw creeping 
over the face of poor queequeg , as he quietly lay in his swaying 
hammock , and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his final 
rest , and the ocean ' s invisible flood - tide lifted him higher and higher 
towards his destined heaven . 
not a man of the crew but gave him up ; and , as for queequeg himself , 
what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he 
asked . he called one to him in the grey morning watch , when the day was 
just breaking , and taking his hand , said that while in nantucket he 
had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood , like the rich 
war - wood of his native isle ; and upon inquiry , he had learned that all 
whalemen who died in nantucket , were laid in those same dark canoes , 
and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him ; for it was not 
unlike the custom of his own race , who , after UNK a dead warrior , 
stretched him out in his canoe , and so left him to be floated away to 
the starry archipelagoes ; for not only do they believe that the stars 
are isles , but that far beyond all visible UNK , their own mild , 
UNK seas , UNK with the blue heavens ; and so form the 
white breakers of the milky way . he added , that he shuddered at 
the thought of being buried in his hammock , according to the usual 
sea - custom , tossed like something vile to the death - devouring sharks . 
no : he desired a canoe like those of nantucket , all the more congenial 
to him , being a whaleman , that like a whale - boat these coffin - canoes 
were without a keel ; though that involved but uncertain steering , and 
much lee - way UNK the dim ages . 
now , when this strange circumstance was made known aft , the carpenter 
was at once commanded to do queequeg ' s bidding , whatever it might 
include . there was some heathenish , coffin - coloured old lumber aboard , 
which , upon a long previous voyage , had been cut from the aboriginal 
groves of the UNK islands , and from these dark planks the coffin 
was recommended to be made . no sooner was the carpenter apprised of 
the order , than taking his rule , he forthwith with all the indifferent 
UNK of his character , proceeded into the forecastle and took 
queequeg ' s measure with great accuracy , regularly UNK queequeg ' s 
person as he shifted the rule . 
" ah ! poor fellow ! he ' ll have to die now , " UNK the long island 
sailor . 
going to his vice - bench , the carpenter for convenience sake and general 
reference , now UNK measured on it the exact length the coffin 
was to be , and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches 
at its extremities . this done , he UNK the planks and his tools , 
and to work . 
when the last nail was driven , and the lid duly planed and fitted , 
he lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it , inquiring 
whether they were ready for it yet in that direction . 
UNK the indignant but half - humorous cries with which the 
people on deck began to drive the coffin away , queequeg , to every one ' s 
consternation , commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to 
him , nor was there any denying him ; seeing that , of all mortals , some 
dying men are the most UNK ; and certainly , since they will 
shortly trouble us so little for evermore , the poor fellows ought to be 
indulged . 
leaning over in his hammock , queequeg long regarded the coffin with 
an UNK eye . he then called for his harpoon , had the wooden stock 
drawn from it , and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along 
with one of the paddles of his boat . all by his own request , also , 
biscuits were then ranged round the sides within : a flask of fresh water 
was placed at the head , and a small bag of UNK earth scraped up in 
the hold at the foot ; and a piece of sail - cloth being rolled up for a 
pillow , queequeg now UNK to be lifted into his final bed , that he 
might make trial of its UNK , if any it had . he lay without moving 
a few minutes , then told one to go to his bag and bring out his little 
god , yojo . then crossing his arms on his breast with yojo between , he 
called for the coffin lid ( hatch he called it ) to be placed over him . 
the head part turned over with a leather hinge , and there lay queequeg 
in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view . " UNK " 
( it will do ; it is easy ) , he murmured at last , and signed to be replaced 
in his hammock . 
but ere this was done , pip , who had been slily hovering near by all this 
while , drew nigh to him where he lay , and with soft UNK , took him 
by the hand ; in the other , holding his tambourine . 
" poor rover ! will ye never have done with all this weary roving ? where 
go ye now ? but if the currents carry ye to those sweet antilles where 
the beaches are only beat with water - UNK , will ye do one little 
errand for me ? seek out one pip , who ' s now been missing long : i think 
he ' s in those far antilles . if ye find him , then comfort him ; for he 
must be very sad ; for look ! he ' s left his tambourine behind ; - i found 
it . rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! now , queequeg , die ; and i ' ll beat ye your dying 
march . " 
" i have heard , " murmured starbuck , gazing down the scuttle , " that in 
violent fevers , men , all ignorance , have talked in ancient UNK ; 
and that when the mystery is UNK , it turns out always that in their 
wholly forgotten UNK those ancient UNK had been really spoken 
in their hearing by some lofty UNK . so , to my fond faith , poor pip , 
in this strange UNK of his lunacy , brings heavenly UNK of all 
our heavenly UNK . where learned he that , but there ? - hark ! he speaks 
again : but more wildly now . " 
" form two and two ! let ' s make a general of him ! ho , where ' s his harpoon ? 
lay it across here . - rig - a - dig , dig , dig ! huzza ! oh for a game cock 
now to sit upon his head and crow ! queequeg dies game ! - mind ye that ; 
queequeg dies game ! - take ye good heed of that ; queequeg dies game ! i 
say ; game , game , game ! but base little pip , he died a coward ; died all 
a ' shiver ; - out upon pip ! hark ye ; if ye find pip , tell all the antilles 
he ' s a UNK ; a coward , a coward , a coward ! tell them he jumped from 
a whale - boat ! i ' d never beat my tambourine over base pip , and hail 
him general , if he were once more dying here . no , no ! shame upon all 
UNK - shame upon them ! let ' em go drown like pip , that jumped from a 
whale - boat . shame ! shame ! " 
during all this , queequeg lay with closed eyes , as if in a dream . pip 
was led away , and the sick man was replaced in his hammock . 
but now that he had apparently made every preparation for death ; now 
that his coffin was proved a good fit , queequeg suddenly rallied ; soon 
there seemed no need of the carpenter ' s box : and UNK , when some 
expressed their UNK surprise , he , in substance , said , that the 
cause of his sudden UNK was this ; - at a critical moment , he 
had just recalled a little duty ashore , which he was leaving undone ; 
and therefore had changed his mind about dying : he could not die yet , 
he averred . they asked him , then , whether to live or die was a matter of 
his own sovereign will and pleasure . he answered , certainly . in a word , 
it was queequeg ' s conceit , that if a man made up his mind to live , mere 
sickness could not kill him : nothing but a whale , or a gale , or some 
violent , UNK , UNK UNK of that sort . 
now , there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized ; 
that while a sick , civilized man may be six months UNK , 
generally speaking , a sick savage is almost half - well again in a day . 
so , in good time my queequeg gained strength ; and at length after 
sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days ( but eating with a 
vigorous appetite ) he suddenly leaped to his feet , threw out his arms 
and legs , gave himself a good stretching , UNK a little bit , and then 
springing into the head of his hoisted boat , and poising a harpoon , 
pronounced himself fit for a fight . 
with a wild UNK , he now used his coffin for a sea - chest ; and 
UNK into it his canvas bag of clothes , set them in order there . 
many spare hours he spent , in carving the lid with all manner of 
UNK figures and drawings ; and it seemed that hereby he was 
striving , in his rude way , to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on 
his body . and this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet and 
UNK of his island , who , by those UNK marks , had written out on 
his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth , and a mystical 
treatise on the art of attaining truth ; so that queequeg in his own 
proper person was a riddle to UNK ; a wondrous work in one volume ; but 
whose mysteries not even himself could read , though his own live heart 
beat against them ; and these mysteries were therefore destined in 
the end to UNK away with the living parchment whereon they were 
UNK , and so be UNK to the last . and this thought it must 
have been which suggested to ahab that wild exclamation of his , when 
one morning turning away from UNK poor queequeg - " oh , devilish 
UNK of the gods ! " 
chapter UNK . the pacific . 
when gliding by the bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great south 
sea ; were it not for other things , i could have UNK my dear pacific 
with uncounted thanks , for now the long UNK of my youth was 
answered ; that serene ocean rolled UNK from me a thousand leagues 
of blue . 
there is , one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea , whose gently 
awful UNK seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath ; like those 
UNK undulations of the UNK UNK over the buried evangelist st . 
john . and meet it is , that over these sea - pastures , wide - rolling watery 
prairies and UNK ' fields of all four continents , the waves should 
rise and fall , and UNK and flow unceasingly ; for here , millions of mixed 
shades and shadows , drowned dreams , UNK , reveries ; all that 
we call lives and souls , lie dreaming , dreaming , still ; tossing like 
UNK in their beds ; the ever - rolling waves but made so by their 
UNK . 
to any UNK magian rover , this serene pacific , once beheld , must 
ever after be the sea of his UNK . it rolls the UNK waters of 
the world , the indian ocean and atlantic being but its arms . the same 
waves wash the moles of the new - built UNK towns , but yesterday 
planted by the UNK race of men , and UNK the faded but still 
gorgeous skirts of asiatic lands , UNK than abraham ; while all between 
float milky - ways of coral isles , and low - lying , endless , unknown 
archipelagoes , and impenetrable UNK . thus this mysterious , divine 
pacific zones the world ' s whole bulk about ; makes all coasts one bay 
to it ; seems the tide - beating heart of earth . lifted by those eternal 
swells , you needs must own the seductive god , bowing your head to pan . 
but few thoughts of pan stirred ahab ' s brain , as standing like an 
iron statue at his accustomed place beside the UNK rigging , with one 
nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the UNK musk from the bashee isles 
( in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking ) , and with the other 
UNK inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea ; that sea in 
which the hated white whale must even then be swimming . launched at 
length upon these almost final waters , and gliding towards the japanese 
cruising - ground , the old man ' s purpose intensified itself . his firm lips 
met like the lips of a vice ; the UNK of his forehead ' s veins swelled 
like UNK brooks ; in his very sleep , his ringing cry ran through 
the UNK hull , " stern all ! the white whale spouts thick blood ! " 
chapter UNK . the blacksmith . 
UNK himself of the mild , summer - cool weather that now reigned in 
these latitudes , and in preparation for the peculiarly active 
pursuits shortly to be anticipated , perth , the begrimed , UNK old 
blacksmith , had not removed his portable forge to the hold again , after 
concluding his UNK work for ahab ' s leg , but still retained 
it on deck , fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast ; being now almost 
incessantly invoked by the headsmen , and harpooneers , and UNK to do 
some little job for them ; altering , or UNK , or new UNK their 
various weapons and boat furniture . often he would be surrounded by an 
eager circle , all waiting to be served ; holding boat - spades , pike - heads , 
harpoons , and lances , and UNK watching his every sooty movement , 
as he toiled . nevertheless , this old man ' s was a patient hammer wielded 
by a patient arm . no UNK , no impatience , no petulance did come from 
him . silent , slow , and solemn ; bowing over still further his UNK 
broken back , he toiled away , as if toil were life itself , and the 
heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart . and so it 
was . - most miserable ! 
a peculiar walk in this old man , a certain slight but UNK UNK 
UNK in his UNK , had at an early period of the voyage excited the 
curiosity of the mariners . and to the UNK of their persisted 
UNK he had finally given in ; and so it came to pass that every 
one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate . 
UNK , and not UNK , one bitter winter ' s midnight , on the road 
running between two country towns , the blacksmith half - UNK felt 
the deadly UNK stealing over him , and sought refuge in a leaning , 
UNK barn . the issue was , the loss of the extremities of both 
feet . out of this revelation , part by part , at last came out the four 
acts of the gladness , and the one long , and as yet UNK fifth 
act of the grief of his life ' s drama . 
he was an old man , who , at the age of nearly sixty , had UNK 
encountered that thing in sorrow ' s UNK called ruin . he had been 
an UNK of famed excellence , and with plenty to do ; owned a house 
and garden ; embraced a UNK , UNK - like , loving wife , and three 
UNK , ruddy children ; every sunday went to a cheerful - looking church , 
planted in a UNK . but one night , under cover of darkness , and further 
concealed in a most cunning UNK , a desperate burglar slid into 
his happy home , and robbed them all of everything . and darker yet to 
tell , the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into 
his family ' s heart . it was the bottle UNK ! upon the opening of that 
fatal cork , forth flew the fiend , and shrivelled up his home . now , for 
prudent , most wise , and UNK reasons , the blacksmith ' s shop was in 
the UNK of his UNK , but with a separate entrance to it ; so 
that always had the young and loving healthy wife UNK with no 
UNK UNK , but with vigorous pleasure , to the stout ringing of 
her young - armed old UNK ' s hammer ; whose UNK , muffled by 
passing through the floors and walls , came up to her , not UNK , 
in her nursery ; and so , to stout labor ' s iron UNK , the blacksmith ' s 
infants were rocked to slumber . 
oh , woe on woe ! oh , death , why canst thou not sometimes be timely ? UNK 
thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon 
him , then had the young widow had a delicious grief , and her orphans a 
truly venerable , legendary sire to dream of in their after years ; and 
all of them a care - killing UNK . but death plucked down some 
UNK UNK brother , on whose UNK daily toil solely hung the 
UNK of some other family , and left the worse than useless 
old man standing , till the hideous UNK of life should make him easier to 
harvest . 
why tell the whole ? the blows of the UNK hammer every day grew more 
and more between ; and each blow every day grew UNK than the last ; 
the wife sat frozen at the window , with tearless eyes , UNK 
gazing into the weeping faces of her children ; the UNK fell ; the 
forge choked up with UNK ; the house was sold ; the mother dived 
down into the long church - yard grass ; her children twice followed her 
thither ; and the UNK , UNK old man UNK off a UNK 
in UNK ; his every woe UNK ; his grey head a scorn to UNK 
UNK ! 
death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this ; but death 
is only a UNK into the region of the strange UNK ; it is but 
the first salutation to the possibilities of the immense remote , the 
wild , the watery , the UNK ; therefore , to the death - longing eyes of 
such men , who still have left in them some interior UNK against 
UNK , does the all - UNK and all - UNK ocean UNK 
spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable , taking terrors , and 
wonderful , new - life adventures ; and from the hearts of infinite 
pacifics , the thousand UNK sing to them - " come hither , 
broken - hearted ; here is another life without the UNK of intermediate 
death ; here are wonders supernatural , without dying for them . come 
hither ! bury thyself in a life which , to your now equally abhorred and 
UNK , landed world , is more UNK than death . come hither ! put 
up thy UNK , too , within the churchyard , and come hither , till we 
UNK thee ! " 
UNK to these voices , east and west , by early sunrise , and by fall 
of eve , the blacksmith ' s soul responded , aye , i come ! and so perth went 
a - whaling . 
chapter UNK . the forge . 
with matted beard , and UNK in a UNK shark - skin UNK , about 
mid - day , perth was standing between his forge and anvil , the latter 
placed upon an iron - wood log , with one hand holding a pike - head in the 
coals , and with the other at his forge ' s lungs , when captain ahab came 
along , carrying in his hand a small rusty - looking leathern bag . while 
yet a little distance from the forge , moody ahab paused ; till at last , 
perth , withdrawing his iron from the fire , began UNK it upon the 
anvil - the red mass sending off the UNK in thick hovering flights , 
some of which flew close to ahab . 
" are these thy mother UNK ' s UNK , perth ? they are always flying 
in thy wake ; birds of good UNK , too , but not to all ; - look here , they 
burn ; but thou - thou UNK ' st among them without a scorch . " 
" because i am scorched all over , captain ahab , " answered perth , resting 
for a moment on his hammer ; " i am past scorching ; not easily can ' st thou 
scorch a scar . " 
" well , well ; no more . thy UNK voice sounds too calmly , sanely UNK 
to me . in no paradise myself , i am impatient of all misery in others 
that is not mad . thou should ' st go mad , blacksmith ; say , why dost thou 
not go mad ? how can ' st thou endure without being mad ? do the heavens yet 
hate thee , that thou can ' st not go mad ? - what UNK thou making there ? " 
" UNK an old pike - head , sir ; there were seams and dents in it . " 
" and can ' st thou make it all smooth again , blacksmith , after such hard 
usage as it had ? " 
" i think so , sir . " 
" and i suppose thou can ' st smoothe almost any seams and dents ; never 
mind how hard the metal , blacksmith ? " 
" aye , sir , i think i can ; all seams and dents but one . " 
" look ye here , then , " cried ahab , UNK advancing , and leaning 
with both hands on perth ' s shoulders ; " look ye here - here - can ye 
smoothe out a seam like this , blacksmith , " sweeping one hand across his 
ribbed brow ; " if thou could ' st , blacksmith , glad enough would i lay 
my head upon thy anvil , and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes . 
answer ! can ' st thou smoothe this seam ? " 
" oh ! that is the one , sir ! said i not all seams and dents but one ? " 
" aye , blacksmith , it is the one ; aye , man , it is UNK ; for 
though thou only see ' st it here in my flesh , it has worked down into the 
bone of my skull - that is all wrinkles ! but , away with child ' s play ; no 
more UNK and UNK to - day . look ye here ! " UNK the leathern bag , 
as if it were full of gold coins . " i , too , want a harpoon made ; one that 
a thousand yoke of fiends could not part , perth ; something that will 
stick in a whale like his own fin - bone . there ' s the stuff , " flinging 
the pouch upon the anvil . " look ye , blacksmith , these are the gathered 
nail - stubbs of the steel shoes of UNK horses . " 
" horse - shoe stubbs , sir ? why , captain ahab , thou hast here , then , the 
best and UNK stuff we blacksmiths ever work . " 
" i know it , old man ; these stubbs will weld together like UNK from the 
melted bones of murderers . quick ! forge me the harpoon . and forge me 
first , twelve rods for its shank ; then wind , and twist , and hammer these 
twelve together like the yarns and UNK of a tow - line . quick ! i ' ll 
blow the fire . " 
when at last the twelve rods were made , ahab tried them , one by one , by 
spiralling them , with his own hand , round a long , heavy iron bolt . " a 
UNK ! " rejecting the last one . " work that over again , perth . " 
this done , perth was about to begin UNK the twelve into one , when 
ahab stayed his hand , and said he would weld his own iron . as , then , 
with regular , gasping UNK , he hammered on the anvil , perth passing to 
him the glowing rods , one after the other , and the hard pressed forge 
shooting up its intense straight flame , the parsee passed silently , and 
bowing over his head towards the fire , seemed invoking some curse or 
some UNK on the toil . but , as ahab looked up , he slid aside . 
" what ' s that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for ? " muttered stubb , 
looking on from the forecastle . " that parsee smells fire like a UNK ; 
and smells of it himself , like a hot musket ' s powder - pan . " 
at last the shank , in one complete rod , received its final heat ; and as 
perth , to temper it , plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near 
by , the scalding steam shot up into ahab ' s bent face . 
" would ' st thou UNK me , perth ? " UNK for a moment with the pain ; 
" have i been but forging my own UNK - iron , then ? " 
" pray god , not that ; yet i fear something , captain ahab . is not this 
harpoon for the white whale ? " 
" for the white fiend ! but now for the barbs ; thou must make them 
thyself , man . here are my razors - the best of steel ; here , and make the 
barbs sharp as the needle - sleet of the icy sea . " 
for a moment , the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain 
not use them . 
" take them , man , i have no need for them ; for i now neither UNK , UNK , 
nor pray till - but here - to work ! " 
fashioned at last into an UNK shape , and welded by perth to the 
shank , the steel soon pointed the end of the iron ; and as the blacksmith 
was about giving the barbs their final heat , prior to UNK them , he 
cried to ahab to place the water - cask near . 
" no , no - no water for that ; i want it of the true death - temper . ahoy , 
there ! tashtego , queequeg , daggoo ! what say ye , pagans ! will ye give me 
as much blood as will cover this barb ? " holding it high up . a cluster of 
dark nods replied , yes . three UNK were made in the heathen flesh , 
and the white whale ' s barbs were then tempered . 
" UNK non UNK UNK in nomine UNK , UNK in nomine UNK ! " 
deliriously howled ahab , as the malignant iron UNK devoured the 
UNK blood . 
now , mustering the spare poles from below , and selecting one of hickory , 
with the bark still UNK it , ahab fitted the end to the socket of 
the iron . a coil of new tow - line was then UNK , and some fathoms of 
it taken to the windlass , and stretched to a great tension . UNK 
his foot upon it , till the rope UNK like a harp - string , then eagerly 
bending over it , and seeing no UNK , ahab exclaimed , " good ! and 
now for the seizings . " 
at one extremity the rope was UNK , and the separate spread yarns 
were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon ; the pole 
was then driven hard up into the socket ; from the lower end the rope 
was UNK half - way along the pole ' s length , and firmly secured so , with 
UNK of twine . this done , pole , iron , and rope - like the three 
fates - remained inseparable , and ahab moodily stalked away with the 
weapon ; the sound of his ivory leg , and the sound of the hickory pole , 
both UNK ringing along every plank . but ere he entered his cabin , 
light , unnatural , half - bantering , yet most piteous sound was heard . oh , 
pip ! thy wretched laugh , thy idle but unresting eye ; all thy strange 
UNK not UNK blended with the black tragedy of the 
melancholy ship , and UNK it ! 
chapter UNK . the UNK . 
UNK further and further into the heart of the japanese cruising 
ground , the pequod was soon all astir in the fishery . often , in mild , 
pleasant weather , for twelve , fifteen , eighteen , and twenty hours on the 
stretch , they were engaged in the boats , steadily pulling , or sailing , 
or UNK after the whales , or for an interlude of sixty or seventy 
minutes calmly awaiting their uprising ; though with but small success 
for their pains . 
at such times , under an abated sun ; afloat all day upon smooth , slow 
heaving swells ; seated in his boat , light as a UNK canoe ; and so 
sociably UNK with the soft waves themselves , that like hearth - stone 
UNK they UNK against the gunwale ; these are the times of dreamy 
quietude , when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the 
ocean ' s skin , one UNK the tiger heart that pants beneath it ; and 
would not willingly remember , that this velvet paw but UNK a 
remorseless UNK . 
these are the times , when in his whale - boat the rover softly feels a 
certain UNK , confident , land - like feeling towards the sea ; that he 
UNK it as so much flowery earth ; and the distant ship revealing 
only the tops of her masts , seems struggling forward , not through high 
rolling waves , but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie : as when 
the western emigrants ' horses only show their erected ears , while their 
hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure . 
the long - drawn virgin UNK ; the mild blue hill - sides ; as over these 
there steals the hush , the hum ; you almost swear that play - wearied 
children lie sleeping in these UNK , in some glad may - time , when 
the flowers of the woods are plucked . and all this UNK with your most 
mystic mood ; so that fact and fancy , half - way meeting , UNK , 
and form one UNK whole . 
nor did such soothing scenes , however temporary , fail of at least as 
temporary an effect on ahab . but if these secret golden keys did seem 
to open in him his own secret golden UNK , yet did his breath upon 
them prove but UNK . 
oh , grassy glades ! oh , ever vernal endless UNK in the soul ; in 
ye , - though long UNK by the dead drought of the UNK life , - in ye , 
men yet may roll , like young horses in new morning UNK ; and for some 
few fleeting moments , feel the cool UNK of the life immortal on them . 
would to god these blessed calms would last . but the UNK , UNK 
threads of life are woven by warp and woof : calms crossed by storms , a 
storm for every calm . there is no steady UNK progress in this 
life ; we do not advance through fixed UNK , and at the last one 
pause : - through infancy ' s unconscious spell , UNK ' s UNK 
faith , UNK ' doubt ( the common doom ) , then scepticism , then 
UNK , resting at last in UNK ' s pondering repose of if . but once 
gone through , we trace the round again ; and are infants , boys , and men , 
and UNK eternally . where lies the final harbor , whence we UNK no 
more ? in what rapt UNK sails the world , of which the UNK will 
never weary ? where is the foundling ' s father hidden ? our souls are like 
those orphans whose UNK mothers die in bearing them : the secret of 
our UNK lies in their grave , and we must there to learn it . 
and that same day , too , gazing far down from his boat ' s side into that 
same golden sea , starbuck lowly murmured : - 
" UNK unfathomable , as ever UNK saw in his young UNK ' s 
eye ! - tell me not of thy teeth - UNK sharks , and thy kidnapping 
cannibal ways . let faith UNK fact ; let fancy UNK memory ; i look deep 
down and do believe . " 
and stubb , fish - like , with sparkling scales , leaped up in that same 
golden light : - 
" i am stubb , and stubb has his history ; but here stubb takes oaths that 
he has always been jolly ! " 
chapter UNK . the pequod meets the bachelor . 
and jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down 
before the wind , some few weeks after ahab ' s harpoon had been welded . 
it was a nantucket ship , the bachelor , which had just wedged in her 
last cask of oil , and bolted down her bursting hatches ; and now , in glad 
UNK UNK , was UNK , though somewhat vain - UNK , sailing 
round among the widely - separated ships on the ground , previous to 
pointing her prow for home . 
the three men at her mast - head wore long UNK of narrow red UNK 
at their hats ; from the stern , a whale - boat was suspended , bottom down ; 
and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the 
last whale they had slain . signals , ensigns , and jacks of all colours 
were flying from her rigging , on every side . sideways lashed in each of 
her three UNK tops were two barrels of sperm ; above which , in her 
top - mast cross - trees , you saw slender breakers of the same precious 
fluid ; and nailed to her main truck was a UNK lamp . 
as was afterwards learned , the bachelor had met with the most surprising 
success ; all the more wonderful , for that while cruising in the same 
seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without securing a 
single fish . not only had barrels of beef and bread been given away to 
make room for the far more valuable sperm , but additional supplemental 
casks had been UNK for , from the ships she had met ; and these were 
stowed along the deck , and in the captain ' s and officers ' state - rooms . 
even the cabin table itself had been knocked into UNK - wood ; and the 
cabin mess dined off the broad head of an oil - butt , lashed down to the 
floor for a UNK . in the forecastle , the sailors had actually 
UNK and pitched their chests , and filled them ; it was humorously 
added , that the cook had clapped a head on his largest UNK , and 
filled it ; that the steward had UNK his spare coffee - pot and filled 
it ; that the harpooneers had headed the UNK of their irons and 
filled them ; that indeed everything was filled with sperm , except the 
captain ' s pantaloons pockets , and those he reserved to thrust his hands 
into , in self - UNK testimony of his entire satisfaction . 
as this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody pequod , the 
UNK sound of enormous UNK came from her forecastle ; and drawing 
still nearer , a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge 
try - pots , which , covered with the parchment - like poke or stomach skin of 
the black fish , gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched 
hands of the crew . on the quarter - deck , the mates and harpooneers were 
dancing with the olive - UNK girls who had UNK with them from the 
UNK isles ; while suspended in an ornamented boat , firmly secured 
aloft between the foremast and mainmast , three long island UNK , with 
glittering fiddle - bows of whale ivory , were presiding over the hilarious 
jig . meanwhile , others of the ship ' s company were UNK busy at 
the masonry of the try - works , from which the huge pots had been 
removed . you would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed 
UNK , such wild cries they raised , as the now useless brick and 
mortar were being hurled into the sea . 
lord and master over all this scene , the captain stood erect on the 
ship ' s elevated quarter - deck , so that the whole rejoicing drama was 
full before him , and seemed merely contrived for his own individual 
UNK . 
and ahab , he too was standing on his quarter - deck , shaggy and black , 
with a stubborn gloom ; and as the two ships crossed each other ' s 
wakes - one all UNK for things passed , the other all UNK 
as to things to come - their two captains in themselves UNK the 
whole striking contrast of the scene . 
" come aboard , come aboard ! " cried the gay bachelor ' s commander , lifting 
a glass and a bottle in the air . 
" hast seen the white whale ? " UNK ahab in reply . 
" no ; only heard of him ; but don ' t believe in him at all , " said the other 
good - humoredly . " come aboard ! " 
" thou art too damned jolly . sail on . hast lost any men ? " 
" not enough to speak of - two islanders , that ' s all ; - but come aboard , 
old hearty , come along . i ' ll soon take that black from your brow . come 
along , will ye ( merry ' s the play ) ; a full ship and homeward - bound . " 
" how wondrous familiar is a fool ! " muttered ahab ; then UNK , " thou art 
a full ship and homeward bound , thou UNK ; well , then , call me an empty 
ship , and outward - bound . so go thy ways , and i will mine . forward there ! 
set all sail , and keep her to the wind ! " 
and thus , while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze , the other 
stubbornly fought against it ; and so the two vessels parted ; the crew 
of the pequod looking with grave , lingering glances towards the UNK 
bachelor ; but the bachelor ' s men never heeding their gaze for the lively 
revelry they were in . and as ahab , leaning over the taffrail , eyed the 
UNK craft , he took from his pocket a small vial of sand , and 
then looking from the ship to the vial , seemed thereby bringing two 
remote associations together , for that vial was filled with nantucket 
soundings . 
chapter UNK . the dying whale . 
not seldom in this life , when , on the right side , UNK ' s UNK 
sail close by us , we , though all UNK before , catch somewhat of the 
rushing breeze , and UNK feel our UNK sails fill out . so seemed 
it with the pequod . for next day after encountering the gay bachelor , 
whales were seen and four were slain ; and one of them by ahab . 
it was far down the afternoon ; and when all the UNK of the crimson 
fight were done : and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky , sun 
and whale both UNK died together ; then , such a UNK and such 
UNK , such UNK UNK curled up in that UNK air , that 
it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green UNK valleys of 
the manilla isles , the spanish land - breeze , UNK turned sailor , had 
gone to sea , freighted with these UNK UNK . 
soothed again , but only soothed to deeper gloom , ahab , who had UNK 
off from the whale , sat intently watching his final UNK from the now 
tranquil boat . for that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales 
dying - the turning sunwards of the head , and so expiring - that strange 
spectacle , beheld of such a UNK evening , somehow to ahab conveyed a 
UNK unknown before . 
" he turns and turns him to it , - how slowly , but how steadfastly , his 
homage - rendering and invoking brow , with his last dying motions . he too 
worships fire ; most faithful , broad , UNK UNK of the sun ! - oh 
that these too - favouring eyes should see these too - favouring sights . 
look ! here , far water - locked ; beyond all hum of human weal or woe ; 
in these most UNK and UNK seas ; where to traditions no rocks 
furnish tablets ; where for long chinese ages , the billows have still 
rolled on speechless and UNK to , as stars that shine upon the 
UNK ' s unknown source ; here , too , life dies sunwards full of faith ; but 
see ! no sooner dead , than death UNK round the corpse , and it heads 
some other way . 
" oh , thou dark hindoo half of nature , who of drowned bones hast builded 
thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these UNK seas ; 
thou art an infidel , thou queen , and too truly UNK to me in the 
wide - UNK typhoon , and the hushed burial of its after calm . nor 
has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head , and then gone round 
again , without a lesson to me . 
" oh , UNK hooped and welded hip of power ! oh , high UNK , UNK 
jet ! - that one UNK , this one UNK all in vain ! in vain , oh 
whale , dost thou seek UNK with yon all - quickening sun , that 
only calls forth life , but gives it not again . yet dost thou , darker 
half , rock me with a UNK , if a darker faith . all thy UNK 
UNK float beneath me here ; i am buoyed by breaths of once living 
things , exhaled as air , but water now . 
" then hail , for ever hail , o sea , in whose eternal UNK the wild 
fowl finds his only rest . born of earth , yet UNK by the sea ; though 
hill and valley UNK me , ye billows are my UNK - UNK ! " 
chapter UNK . the whale watch . 
the four whales slain that evening had died wide apart ; one , far to 
windward ; one , less distant , to leeward ; one ahead ; one astern . these 
last three were brought alongside ere nightfall ; but the windward one 
could not be reached till morning ; and the boat that had killed it lay 
by its side all night ; and that boat was ahab ' s . 
the waif - pole was thrust upright into the dead whale ' s spout - hole ; and 
the lantern hanging from its top , cast a troubled UNK glare 
upon the black , glossy back , and far out upon the midnight waves , which 
gently UNK the whale ' s broad flank , like soft surf upon a beach . 
ahab and all his boat ' s crew seemed asleep but the parsee ; who crouching 
in the bow , sat watching the sharks , that UNK played round the 
whale , and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails . a sound 
like the UNK in UNK over UNK of UNK ghosts of 
gomorrah , ran shuddering through the air . 
started from his slumbers , ahab , face to face , saw the parsee ; and 
hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a 
flooded world . " i have dreamed it again , " said he . 
" of the UNK ? have i not said , old man , that neither hearse nor 
coffin can be thine ? " 
" and who are hearsed that die on the sea ? " 
" but i said , old man , that ere thou UNK die on this voyage , two 
UNK must verily be seen by thee on the sea ; the first not made by 
mortal hands ; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in 
america . " 
" aye , aye ! a strange sight that , parsee : - a hearse and its UNK 
floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall - bearers . ha ! such a 
sight we shall not soon see . " 
" believe it or not , thou canst not die till it be seen , old man . " 
" and what was that saying about thyself ? " 
" though it come to the last , i shall still go before thee thy pilot . " 
" and when thou art so gone before - if that ever UNK - then ere i can 
follow , thou must still appear to me , to pilot me still ? - was it not 
so ? well , then , did i believe all ye say , oh my pilot ! i have here two 
UNK that i shall yet UNK moby dick and survive it . " 
" take another pledge , old man , " said the parsee , as his eyes lighted up 
like fire - flies in the gloom - " hemp only can kill thee . " 
" the gallows , ye mean . - i am immortal then , on land and on sea , " cried 
ahab , with a laugh of UNK ; - " immortal on land and on sea ! " 
both were silent again , as one man . the grey dawn came on , and the 
slumbering crew arose from the boat ' s bottom , and ere noon the dead 
whale was brought to the ship . 
chapter UNK . the quadrant . 
the season for the line at length drew near ; and every day when ahab , 
coming from his cabin , cast his eyes aloft , the vigilant helmsman would 
ostentatiously handle his spokes , and the eager mariners quickly run to 
the braces , and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed 
on the nailed doubloon ; impatient for the order to point the ship ' s 
prow for the equator . in good time the order came . it was hard upon high 
noon ; and ahab , seated in the bows of his high - hoisted boat , was 
about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to UNK his 
latitude . 
now , in that japanese sea , the days in summer are as freshets of 
effulgences . that UNK vivid japanese sun seems the blazing 
UNK of the glassy ocean ' s UNK burning - glass . the sky looks 
lacquered ; clouds there are none ; the horizon floats ; and this nakedness 
of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable UNK of god ' s throne . 
well that ahab ' s quadrant was furnished with coloured glasses , through 
which to take sight of that solar fire . so , swinging his seated form 
to the roll of the ship , and with his UNK - looking instrument 
placed to his eye , he remained in that posture for some moments to 
catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its precise UNK . 
meantime while his whole attention was absorbed , the parsee was kneeling 
beneath him on the ship ' s deck , and with face thrown up like ahab ' s , 
was eyeing the same sun with him ; only the UNK of his eyes half hooded 
their orbs , and his wild face was subdued to an earthly UNK . 
at length the desired observation was taken ; and with his pencil upon 
his ivory leg , ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that 
precise instant . then falling into a moment ' s UNK , he again looked up 
towards the sun and murmured to himself : " thou sea - mark ! thou high and 
mighty pilot ! thou UNK me truly where i am - but canst thou cast the 
least hint where i shall be ? or canst thou tell where some other thing 
besides me is this moment living ? where is moby dick ? this instant thou 
must be eyeing him . these eyes of mine look into the very eye that is 
even now beholding him ; aye , and into the eye that is even now equally 
beholding the objects on the unknown , thither side of thee , thou sun ! " 
then gazing at his quadrant , and handling , one after the other , its 
numerous UNK contrivances , he pondered again , and muttered : 
" foolish toy ! babies ' UNK of haughty admirals , and commodores , and 
captains ; the world UNK of thee , of thy cunning and might ; but what 
after all canst thou do , but tell the poor , pitiful point , where thou 
thyself UNK to be on this wide planet , and the hand that holds 
thee : no ! not one jot more ! thou canst not tell where one drop of water 
or one grain of sand will be to - morrow noon ; and yet with thy UNK 
thou UNK the sun ! science ! curse thee , thou vain toy ; and cursed 
be all the things that cast man ' s eyes aloft to that heaven , whose live 
UNK but UNK him , as these old eyes are even now scorched 
with thy light , o sun ! level by nature to this earth ' s horizon are the 
glances of man ' s eyes ; not shot from the crown of his head , as if god 
had meant him to gaze on his firmament . curse thee , thou quadrant ! " 
dashing it to the deck , " no longer will i UNK my earthly way by thee ; 
the level ship ' s compass , and the level UNK , by log and by 
line ; these shall conduct me , and show me my place on the sea . aye , " 
lighting from the boat to the deck , " thus i UNK on thee , thou paltry 
thing that UNK UNK on high ; thus i split and destroy thee ! " 
as the frantic old man thus spoke and thus UNK with his live 
and dead feet , a UNK UNK that seemed meant for ahab , and a 
UNK despair that seemed meant for himself - these passed over 
the mute , motionless parsee ' s face . unobserved he rose and glided away ; 
while , UNK by the aspect of their commander , the seamen UNK 
together on the forecastle , till ahab , UNK pacing the deck , 
shouted out - " to the braces ! up helm ! - square in ! " 
in an instant the yards swung round ; and as the ship half - wheeled upon 
her heel , her three firm - seated graceful masts UNK poised upon 
her long , ribbed hull , seemed as the three UNK UNK on one 
sufficient steed . 
standing between the knight - heads , starbuck watched the pequod ' s 
tumultuous way , and ahab ' s also , as he went UNK along the deck . 
" i have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow , full of 
its tormented flaming life ; and i have seen it wane at last , down , down , 
to UNK dust . old man of oceans ! of all this fiery life of thine , 
what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes ! " 
" aye , " cried stubb , " but sea - coal ashes - mind ye that , mr . 
starbuck - sea - coal , not your common UNK . well , well ; i heard ahab 
mutter , ' here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands of mine ; 
swears that i must play them , and no others . ' and damn me , ahab , but 
thou UNK right ; live in the game , and die in it ! " 
chapter UNK . the candles . 
UNK climes but nurse the UNK UNK : the tiger of UNK 
UNK in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure . skies the most UNK 
but basket the deadliest thunders : gorgeous cuba knows tornadoes 
that never swept tame northern lands . so , too , it is , that in these 
resplendent japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all 
storms , the typhoon . it will sometimes burst from out that UNK 
sky , like an UNK UNK upon a UNK and sleepy town . 
towards evening of that day , the pequod was torn of her canvas , and 
bare - UNK was left to fight a typhoon which had struck her directly 
ahead . when darkness came on , sky and sea roared and split with the 
thunder , and UNK with the lightning , that showed the UNK masts 
UNK here and there with the rags which the first fury of the 
tempest had left for its after UNK . 
holding by a shroud , starbuck was standing on the quarter - deck ; at every 
flash of the lightning glancing aloft , to see what additional disaster 
might have befallen the intricate UNK there ; while stubb and flask 
were directing the men in the higher hoisting and UNK lashing of the 
boats . but all their pains seemed naught . though lifted to the very 
top of the cranes , the windward quarter boat ( ahab ' s ) did not escape . 
a great rolling sea , dashing high up against the reeling ship ' s high 
UNK side , stove in the boat ' s bottom at the stern , and left it 
again , all dripping through like a UNK . 
" bad work , bad work ! mr . starbuck , " said stubb , regarding the wreck , 
" but the sea will have its way . stubb , for one , can ' t fight it . you see , 
mr . starbuck , a wave has such a great long start before it leaps , all 
round the world it runs , and then comes the spring ! but as for me , all 
the start i have to meet it , is just across the deck here . but never 
mind ; it ' s all in fun : so the old song says ; " - ( UNK . ) 
oh ! jolly is the gale , 
and a UNK is the whale , 
a ' UNK ' his tail , - 
such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , is the ocean , oh ! 
the scud all a UNK ' , 
that ' s his flip only UNK ' ; 
when he stirs in the UNK ' , - 
such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , is the ocean , oh ! 
thunder UNK the ships , 
but he only UNK his lips , 
a UNK ' of this flip , - 
such a funny , sporty , gamy , jesty , joky , hoky - poky lad , is the ocean , oh ! 
" avast stubb , " cried starbuck , " let the typhoon sing , and strike his 
harp here in our rigging ; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy 
peace . " 
" but i am not a brave man ; never said i was a brave man ; i am a coward ; 
and i sing to keep up my spirits . and i tell you what it is , mr . 
starbuck , there ' s no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my 
throat . and when that ' s done , ten to one i sing ye the UNK for a 
wind - up . " 
" madman ! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own . " 
" what ! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else , never 
mind how foolish ? " 
" here ! " cried starbuck , seizing stubb by the shoulder , and pointing his 
hand towards the weather bow , " UNK thou not that the gale comes from 
the eastward , the very course ahab is to run for moby dick ? the very 
course he swung to this day noon ? now mark his boat there ; where is 
that stove ? in the stern - sheets , man ; where he is wont to stand - his 
stand - point is stove , man ! now jump overboard , and sing away , if thou 
must ! 
" i don ' t half understand ye : what ' s in the wind ? " 
" yes , yes , round the cape of good hope is the UNK way to 
nantucket , " soliloquized starbuck suddenly , UNK of stubb ' s 
question . " the gale that now hammers at us to stave us , we can turn it 
into a fair wind that will drive us towards home . yonder , to windward , 
all is blackness of doom ; but to leeward , homeward - i see it UNK up 
there ; but not with the lightning . " 
at that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness , following 
the flashes , a voice was heard at his side ; and almost at the same 
instant a UNK of thunder UNK rolled overhead . 
" who ' s there ? " 
" old thunder ! " said ahab , groping his way along the bulwarks to his 
pivot - hole ; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed 
lances of fire . 
now , as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off 
the perilous fluid into the soil ; so the kindred rod which at sea some 
ships carry to each mast , is intended to conduct it into the water . but 
as this UNK must descend to considerable depth , that its end may 
avoid all contact with the hull ; and as moreover , if kept constantly 
towing there , it would be liable to many UNK , besides UNK 
not a little with some of the rigging , and more or less UNK the 
vessel ' s way in the water ; because of all this , the lower parts of a 
ship ' s lightning - rods are not always overboard ; but are generally made 
in long slender links , so as to be the more readily hauled up into the 
chains outside , or thrown down into the sea , as occasion may require . 
" the rods ! the rods ! " cried starbuck to the crew , suddenly UNK to 
vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting UNK , 
to light ahab to his post . " are they overboard ? drop them over , fore and 
aft . quick ! " 
" avast ! " cried ahab ; " let ' s have fair play here , though we be the UNK 
side . yet i ' ll contribute to raise rods on the UNK and andes , that 
all the world may be secured ; but out on privileges ! let them be , sir . " 
" look aloft ! " cried starbuck . " the corpusants ! the corpusants ! " 
all the yard - arms were tipped with a pallid fire ; and touched at each 
tri - pointed lightning - rod - end with three tapering white flames , each of 
the three tall masts was silently burning in that UNK air , like 
three gigantic wax tapers before an altar . 
" blast the boat ! let it go ! " cried stubb at this instant , as a swashing 
sea heaved up under his own little craft , so that its gunwale violently 
jammed his hand , as he was passing a lashing . " blast it ! " - but 
slipping backward on the deck , his uplifted eyes caught the flames ; and 
immediately shifting his tone he cried - " the corpusants have mercy on us 
all ! " 
to sailors , oaths are household words ; they will swear in the trance of 
the calm , and in the teeth of the tempest ; they will imprecate curses 
from the topsail - yard - arms , when most they UNK over to a seething 
sea ; but in all my voyagings , seldom have i heard a common oath when 
god ' s burning finger has been laid on the ship ; when his " mene , mene , 
UNK UNK " has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage . 
while this pallidness was burning aloft , few words were heard from the 
enchanted crew ; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle , 
all their eyes UNK in that pale UNK , like a far away 
constellation of stars . relieved against the ghostly light , the gigantic 
jet negro , daggoo , loomed up to thrice his real stature , and seemed 
the black cloud from which the thunder had come . the parted mouth of 
tashtego revealed his shark - white teeth , which strangely gleamed as 
if they too had been tipped by corpusants ; while lit up by the 
preternatural light , queequeg ' s tattooing burned like UNK blue 
flames on his body . 
the UNK all waned at last with the pallidness aloft ; and once more 
the pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall . a moment 
or two passed , when starbuck , going forward , pushed against some one . it 
was stubb . " what UNK thou now , man ; i heard thy cry ; it was not the 
same in the song . " 
" no , no , it wasn ' t ; i said the corpusants have mercy on us all ; and i 
hope they will , still . but do they only have mercy on long faces ? - have 
they no bowels for a laugh ? and look ye , mr . starbuck - but it ' s too dark 
to look . hear me , then : i take that mast - head flame we saw for a sign 
of good luck ; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be 
UNK a ' block with sperm - oil , d ' ye see ; and so , all that sperm will 
work up into the masts , like sap in a tree . yes , our three masts will 
yet be as three spermaceti candles - that ' s the good promise we saw . " 
at that moment starbuck caught sight of stubb ' s face slowly beginning 
to UNK into sight . glancing upwards , he cried : " see ! see ! " and once 
more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed UNK 
UNK in their pallor . 
" the corpusants have mercy on us all , " cried stubb , again . 
at the base of the mainmast , full beneath the doubloon and the flame , 
the parsee was kneeling in ahab ' s front , but with his head bowed away 
from him ; while near by , from the arched and overhanging rigging , where 
they had just been engaged securing a spar , a number of the seamen , 
arrested by the glare , now UNK together , and hung pendulous , like a 
knot of UNK UNK from a drooping , orchard twig . in various enchanted 
attitudes , like the standing , or stepping , or running skeletons in 
UNK , others remained rooted to the deck ; but all their eyes 
UNK . 
" aye , aye , men ! " cried ahab . " look up at it ; mark it well ; the white 
flame but lights the way to the white whale ! hand me those mainmast 
links there ; i would fain feel this pulse , and let mine beat against it ; 
blood against fire ! so . " 
then turning - the last UNK held fast in his left hand , he put his foot 
upon the parsee ; and with fixed upward eye , and high - flung right arm , he 
stood erect before the lofty tri - pointed trinity of flames . 
" oh ! thou clear spirit of clear fire , whom on these seas i as persian 
once did worship , till in the UNK act so burned by thee , that to 
this hour i bear the scar ; i now know thee , thou clear spirit , and i now 
know that thy right worship is defiance . to neither love nor reverence 
wilt thou be kind ; and e ' en for hate thou canst but kill ; and all 
are killed . no fearless fool now fronts thee . i own thy speechless , 
placeless power ; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will 
UNK its unconditional , UNK UNK in me . in the midst of the 
personified impersonal , a personality stands here . though but a point at 
best ; UNK ' er i came ; UNK ' er i go ; yet while i earthly live , 
the UNK personality lives in me , and feels her royal rights . but war 
is pain , and hate is woe . come in thy lowest form of love , and i will 
UNK and kiss thee ; but at thy highest , come as mere UNK power ; 
and though thou UNK navies of full - freighted worlds , there ' s that 
in here that still remains indifferent . oh , thou clear spirit , of thy 
fire thou UNK me , and like a true child of fire , i breathe it back to 
thee . " 
UNK , repeated flashes of lightning ; the nine flames leap lengthwise 
to thrice their previous height ; ahab , with the rest , UNK his eyes , 
his right hand pressed hard upon them . ] 
" i own thy speechless , placeless power ; said i not so ? nor was it UNK 
from me ; nor do i now drop these links . thou canst blind ; but i can then 
grope . thou canst consume ; but i can then be ashes . take the homage of 
these poor eyes , and UNK - hands . i would not take it . the lightning 
flashes through my skull ; mine eye - balls ache and ache ; my whole beaten 
brain seems as beheaded , and rolling on some UNK ground . oh , oh ! 
yet UNK , yet will i talk to thee . light though thou be , thou 
UNK out of darkness ; but i am darkness leaping out of light , leaping 
out of thee ! the UNK cease ; open eyes ; see , or not ? there burn the 
flames ! oh , thou magnanimous ! now i do glory in my UNK . but thou 
art but my fiery father ; my sweet mother , i know not . oh , cruel ! what 
hast thou done with her ? there lies my puzzle ; but thine is greater . 
thou knowest not how came ye , hence callest thyself UNK ; 
certainly knowest not thy beginning , hence callest thyself UNK . i 
know that of me , which thou knowest not of thyself , oh , thou omnipotent . 
there is some UNK thing beyond thee , thou clear spirit , to whom 
all thy eternity is but time , all thy UNK mechanical . through 
thee , thy flaming self , my scorched eyes do dimly see it . oh , thou 
foundling fire , thou hermit immemorial , thou too hast thy incommunicable 
riddle , thy UNK grief . here again with haughty agony , i read 
my sire . leap ! leap up , and lick the sky ! i leap with thee ; i burn with 
thee ; would fain be welded with thee ; defyingly i worship thee ! " 
" the boat ! the boat ! " cried starbuck , " look at thy boat , old man ! " 
ahab ' s harpoon , the one forged at perth ' s fire , remained firmly lashed 
in its conspicuous crotch , so that it projected beyond his whale - boat ' s 
bow ; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather 
sheath to drop off ; and from the keen steel barb there now came a 
levelled flame of pale , forked fire . as the silent harpoon burned there 
like a serpent ' s tongue , starbuck grasped ahab by the arm - " god , god 
is against thee , old man ; forbear ! ' tis an ill voyage ! ill begun , ill 
continued ; let me square the yards , while we may , old man , and make a 
fair wind of it UNK , to go on a better voyage than this . " 
UNK starbuck , the panic - stricken crew instantly ran to the 
braces - though not a sail was left aloft . for the moment all the aghast 
mate ' s thoughts seemed theirs ; they raised a half UNK cry . but 
dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck , and snatching the 
burning harpoon , ahab waved it like a UNK among them ; swearing to 
UNK with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope ' s end . 
UNK by his aspect , and still more shrinking from the fiery dart 
that he held , the men fell back in dismay , and ahab again spoke : - 
" all your oaths to hunt the white whale are as UNK as mine ; and 
heart , soul , and body , lungs and life , old ahab is bound . and that ye 
may know to what tune this heart UNK ; look ye here ; thus i blow out 
the last fear ! " and with one blast of his breath he UNK the 
flame . 
as in the hurricane that UNK the plain , men fly the UNK of 
some lone , gigantic UNK , whose very height and strength but render it so 
much the more UNK , because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts ; 
so at those last words of ahab ' s many of the mariners did run from him 
in a terror of dismay . 
chapter UNK . the deck towards the end of the first night watch . 
ahab standing by the helm . starbuck approaching him . 
" we must send down the main - top - sail yard , sir . the band is working loose 
and the lee lift is half - stranded . shall i strike it , sir ? " 
" strike nothing ; lash it . if i had sky - sail poles , i ' d sway them up 
now . " 
" sir ! - in god ' s name ! - sir ? " 
" well . " 
" the anchors are working , sir . shall i get them UNK ? " 
" strike nothing , and stir nothing , but lash everything . the wind rises , 
but it has not got up to my table - lands yet . quick , and see to it . - by 
masts and keels ! he takes me for the hunch - backed UNK of some 
UNK UNK . send down my main - top - sail yard ! ho , UNK ! loftiest 
trucks were made for UNK winds , and this brain - truck of mine now 
sails amid the cloud - scud . shall i strike that ? oh , none but UNK 
send down their brain - trucks in tempest time . what a UNK aloft 
there ! i would e ' en take it for sublime , did i not know that the UNK 
is a noisy UNK . oh , take medicine , take medicine ! " 
chapter UNK . midnight . - the forecastle bulwarks . 
stubb and flask mounted on them , and passing additional lashings over 
the anchors there hanging . 
" no , stubb ; you may pound that knot there as much as you please , but you 
will never pound into me what you were just now saying . and how long 
ago is it since you said the very contrary ? didn ' t you once say that 
whatever ship ahab sails in , that ship should pay something extra on its 
insurance policy , just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft 
and boxes of lucifers forward ? stop , now ; didn ' t you say so ? " 
" well , suppose i did ? what then ? i ' ve part changed my flesh since that 
time , why not my mind ? besides , supposing we are loaded with powder 
barrels aft and lucifers forward ; how the devil could the lucifers get 
afire in this UNK spray here ? why , my little man , you have 
pretty red hair , but you couldn ' t get afire now . shake yourself ; you ' re 
aquarius , or the water - bearer , flask ; might fill UNK at your coat 
collar . don ' t you see , then , that for these extra UNK the marine 
insurance companies have extra UNK ? here are UNK , flask . but 
hark , again , and i ' ll answer ye the other thing . first take your leg off 
from the crown of the anchor here , though , so i can pass the rope ; 
now listen . what ' s the mighty difference between holding a mast ' s 
lightning - rod in the storm , and standing close by a mast that hasn ' t 
got any lightning - rod at all in a storm ? don ' t you see , you timber - head , 
that no harm can come to the holder of the rod , unless the mast is first 
struck ? what are you talking about , then ? not one ship in a hundred 
carries rods , and ahab , - aye , man , and all of us , - were in no more 
danger then , in my poor opinion , than all the crews in ten thousand 
ships now sailing the seas . why , you king - post , you , i suppose you would 
have every man in the world go about with a small lightning - rod running 
up the corner of his hat , like a UNK officer ' s UNK feather , 
and UNK behind like his UNK . why don ' t ye be sensible , flask ? it ' s 
easy to be sensible ; why don ' t ye , then ? any man with half an eye can be 
sensible . " 
" i don ' t know that , stubb . you sometimes find it rather hard . " 
" yes , when a fellow ' s soaked through , it ' s hard to be sensible , that ' s 
a fact . and i am about drenched with this spray . never mind ; catch the 
turn there , and pass it . seems to me we are lashing down these anchors 
now as if they were never going to be used again . tying these two 
anchors here , flask , seems like tying a man ' s hands behind him . and what 
big generous hands they are , to be sure . these are your iron UNK , 
hey ? what a hold they have , too ! i wonder , flask , whether the world is 
anchored anywhere ; if she is , she swings with an uncommon long cable , 
though . there , hammer that knot down , and we ' ve done . so ; next to 
touching land , lighting on deck is the most satisfactory . i say , just 
UNK out my jacket skirts , will ye ? thank ye . they laugh at long - UNK 
so , flask ; but seems to me , a long tailed coat ought always to be worn 
in all storms afloat . the tails tapering down that way , serve to carry 
off the water , d ' ye see . same with UNK hats ; the cocks form gable - end 
UNK - UNK , flask . no more monkey - jackets and tarpaulins for me ; i 
must mount a swallow - tail , and drive down a beaver ; so . halloa ! whew ! 
there goes my tarpaulin overboard ; lord , lord , that the winds that come 
from heaven should be so unmannerly ! this is a UNK night , lad . " 
chapter UNK . midnight aloft . - thunder and lightning . 
the main - top - sail yard . - tashtego passing new lashings around it . 
" um , um , um . stop that thunder ! plenty too much thunder up here . what ' s 
the use of thunder ? um , um , um . we don ' t want thunder ; we want rum ; give 
us a glass of rum . um , um , um ! " 
chapter UNK . the musket . 
during the most violent UNK of the typhoon , the man at the pequod ' s 
jaw - bone tiller had several times been UNK hurled to the deck by 
its spasmodic motions , even though UNK tackles had been attached 
to it - for they were slack - because some play to the tiller was 
indispensable . 
in a severe gale like this , while the ship is but a tossed UNK 
to the blast , it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the 
compasses , at intervals , go round and round . it was thus with the 
pequod ' s ; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice 
the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards ; it is 
a sight that hardly UNK can behold without some sort of unwonted 
emotion . 
some hours after midnight , the typhoon abated so much , that through the 
UNK UNK of starbuck and stubb - one engaged forward and the 
other aft - the shivered UNK of the jib and fore and main - top - sails 
were cut adrift from the spars , and went eddying away to leeward , like 
the feathers of an albatross , which sometimes are cast to the winds when 
that storm - tossed bird is on the wing . 
the three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed , and a 
storm - UNK was set further aft ; so that the ship soon went through 
the water with some precision again ; and the course - for the present , 
east - south - east - which he was to steer , if practicable , was once more 
given to the helmsman . for during the violence of the gale , he had only 
steered according to its vicissitudes . but as he was now bringing the 
ship as near her course as possible , watching the compass meanwhile , lo ! 
a good sign ! the wind seemed coming round astern ; aye , the foul breeze 
became fair ! 
instantly the yards were UNK , to the lively song of " ho ! the 
fair wind ! oh - ye - ho , UNK men ! " the crew singing for joy , that so 
promising an event should so soon have UNK the evil portents 
preceding it . 
in UNK with the standing order of his commander - to report 
immediately , and at any one of the twenty - four hours , any decided change 
in the affairs of the deck , - starbuck had no sooner UNK the yards to 
the breeze - however UNK and gloomily , - than he mechanically went 
below to UNK captain ahab of the circumstance . 
ere knocking at his state - room , he involuntarily paused before it 
a moment . the cabin lamp - taking long swings this way and that - was 
burning UNK , and casting UNK shadows upon the old man ' s bolted 
door , - a thin one , with fixed blinds inserted , in place of upper UNK . 
the isolated UNK of the cabin made a certain humming 
silence to reign there , though it was hooped round by all the roar of 
the elements . the loaded muskets in the rack were UNK revealed , as 
they stood upright against the forward UNK . starbuck was an honest , 
upright man ; but out of starbuck ' s heart , at that instant when he saw 
the muskets , there strangely UNK an evil thought ; but so UNK with 
its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew 
it for itself . 
" he would have shot me once , " he murmured , " yes , there ' s the very musket 
that he pointed at me ; - that one with the studded stock ; let me touch 
it - lift it . strange , that i , who have handled so many deadly lances , 
strange , that i should shake so now . loaded ? i must see . aye , aye ; and 
powder in the pan ; - that ' s not good . best UNK it ? - wait . i ' ll cure 
myself of this . i ' ll hold the musket boldly while i think . - i come 
to report a fair wind to him . but how fair ? fair for death and 
doom , - that ' s fair for moby dick . it ' s a fair wind that ' s only fair for 
that accursed fish . - the very tube he pointed at me ! - the very one ; 
this one - i hold it here ; he would have killed me with the very thing i 
handle now . - aye and he would fain kill all his crew . does he not say 
he will not strike his spars to any gale ? has he not dashed his heavenly 
quadrant ? and in these same perilous seas , UNK he not his way by mere 
dead reckoning of the error - abounding log ? and in this very typhoon , did 
he not swear that he would have no lightning - rods ? but shall this crazed 
old man be tamely UNK to drag a whole ship ' s company down to doom 
with him ? - yes , it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and 
more , if this ship come to any deadly harm ; and come to deadly harm , my 
soul swears this ship will , if ahab have his way . if , then , he were this 
instant - put aside , that crime would not be his . ha ! is he muttering in 
his sleep ? yes , just there , - in there , he ' s sleeping . sleeping ? aye , 
but still alive , and soon awake again . i can ' t withstand thee , then , old 
man . not reasoning ; not UNK ; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to ; 
all this thou UNK . flat obedience to thy own flat UNK , this is 
all thou UNK . aye , and say ' st the men have vow ' d thy vow ; say ' st 
all of us are UNK . great god UNK ! - but is there no other way ? no 
UNK way ? - make him a prisoner to be taken home ? what ! hope to wrest 
this old man ' s living power from his own living hands ? only a fool 
would try it . say he were pinioned even ; knotted all over with ropes 
and hawsers ; chained down to ring - bolts on this cabin floor ; he would 
be more hideous than a UNK tiger , then . i could not endure the 
sight ; could not possibly fly his UNK ; all comfort , sleep itself , 
UNK reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage . what , 
then , remains ? the land is hundreds of leagues away , and locked japan 
the nearest . i stand alone here upon an open sea , with two oceans and 
a whole continent between me and law . - aye , aye , ' tis so . - is heaven 
a murderer when its lightning strikes a would - be murderer in his bed , 
UNK sheets and skin together ? - and would i be a murderer , then , 
if " - and slowly , UNK , and half sideways looking , he placed the 
loaded musket ' s end against the door . 
" on this level , ahab ' s hammock swings within ; his head this way . a 
touch , and starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again . - oh 
mary ! mary ! - boy ! boy ! boy ! - but if i wake thee not to death , old man , 
who can tell to what unsounded deeps starbuck ' s body this day week 
may sink , with all the crew ! great god , where art thou ? shall i ? shall 
i ? - the wind has gone down and shifted , sir ; the fore and main topsails 
are reefed and set ; she heads her course . " 
" stern all ! oh moby dick , i clutch thy heart at last ! " 
such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man ' s 
tormented sleep , as if starbuck ' s voice had caused the long dumb dream 
to speak . 
the yet levelled musket shook like a UNK ' s arm against the UNK ; 
starbuck seemed UNK with an angel ; but turning from the door , he 
placed the death - tube in its rack , and left the place . 
" he ' s too sound asleep , mr . stubb ; go thou down , and wake him , and tell 
him . i must see to the deck here . thou know ' st what to say . " 
chapter UNK . the needle . 
next morning the not - yet - subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of 
mighty bulk , and striving in the pequod ' s gurgling track , pushed her on 
like giants ' palms UNK . the strong , UNK breeze UNK 
so , that sky and air seemed vast UNK sails ; the whole world 
UNK before the wind . muffled in the full morning light , the invisible 
sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place ; where his 
bayonet rays moved on in stacks . emblazonings , as of crowned UNK 
kings and queens , reigned over everything . the sea was as a UNK of 
UNK gold , that UNK leaps with light and heat . 
long UNK an enchanted silence , ahab stood apart ; and every time 
the UNK ship UNK pitched down her bowsprit , he turned to eye 
the bright sun ' s rays produced ahead ; and when she profoundly settled by 
the stern , he turned behind , and saw the sun ' s UNK place , and how 
the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake . 
" ha , ha , my ship ! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea - UNK of 
the sun . ho , ho ! all ye nations before my prow , i bring the sun to ye ! 
yoke on the further billows ; UNK ! a tandem , i drive the sea ! " 
but suddenly UNK back by some counter thought , he hurried towards the 
helm , UNK demanding how the ship was heading . 
" east - sou - east , sir , " said the frightened steersman . 
" thou UNK ! " UNK him with his clenched UNK . " heading east at this 
hour in the morning , and the sun astern ? " 
upon this every soul was confounded ; for the phenomenon just then 
observed by ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else ; but its very 
blinding UNK must have been the cause . 
thrusting his head half way into the binnacle , ahab caught one glimpse 
of the compasses ; his uplifted arm slowly fell ; for a moment he almost 
seemed to stagger . standing behind him starbuck looked , and lo ! the two 
compasses pointed east , and the pequod was as infallibly going west . 
but ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew , 
the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed , " i have it ! it has happened 
before . mr . starbuck , last night ' s thunder turned our compasses - that ' s 
all . thou hast before now heard of such a thing , i take it . " 
" aye ; but never before has it happened to me , sir , " said the pale mate , 
gloomily . 
here , it must needs be said , that accidents like this have in more than 
one case occurred to ships in violent storms . the magnetic energy , as 
developed in the mariner ' s needle , is , as all know , essentially one with 
the UNK beheld in heaven ; hence it is not to be much marvelled 
at , that such things should be . instances where the lightning has 
actually struck the vessel , so as to smite down some of the spars and 
rigging , the effect upon the needle has at times been still more fatal ; 
all its loadstone virtue being annihilated , so that the before magnetic 
steel was of no more use than an old wife ' s UNK needle . but in 
either case , the needle never again , of itself , UNK the original 
virtue thus marred or lost ; and if the binnacle compasses be affected , 
the same fate UNK all the others that may be in the ship ; even were 
the lowermost one inserted into the kelson . 
deliberately standing before the binnacle , and eyeing the transpointed 
compasses , the old man , with the sharp of his extended hand , now took 
the precise bearing of the sun , and satisfied that the needles were 
exactly inverted , shouted out his orders for the ship ' s course to be 
changed accordingly . the yards were hard up ; and once more the pequod 
thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind , for the supposed fair 
one had only been juggling her . 
meanwhile , whatever were his own secret thoughts , starbuck said nothing , 
but quietly he issued all requisite orders ; while stubb and flask - who 
in some small degree seemed then to be sharing his feelings - likewise 
UNK UNK . as for the men , though some of them lowly 
UNK , their fear of ahab was greater than their fear of fate . but as 
ever before , the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly UNK ; 
or if impressed , it was only with a certain UNK shot into their 
congenial hearts from inflexible ahab ' s . 
for a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries . but 
chancing to slip with his ivory heel , he saw the crushed copper 
sight - UNK of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck . 
" thou poor , proud heaven - UNK and sun ' s pilot ! yesterday i wrecked 
thee , and to - day the compasses would fain have wrecked me . so , so . but 
ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet . mr . starbuck - a lance without 
a pole ; a top - maul , and the smallest of the sail - maker ' s needles . 
quick ! " 
accessory , perhaps , to the impulse UNK the thing he was now about 
to do , were certain prudential motives , whose object might have been to 
revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill , in a 
matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses . besides , the old 
man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles , though UNK 
practicable , was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious sailors , 
without some UNK and evil portents . 
